# 2. Get, give, and encourage guidance
----

```
        Care Personally
              ^
              |
  Ruinous     |   Radical
  Empathy     |   Candor
              |
<-------------|-------------> Challenge Directly
              |
 Manipulative | Obnoxious
 Insincerity  | Aggression
              |
              |
              v
```

#### Radical candor
- "It's not mean, it's clear"
- Radically candid praise
  - "I admire that about you"
  - The "why" is important
- Radically candid criticism
  - To keep winning, criticize the wins
  - Point out to great players what they could have done better
    - Especially after they have just won a game

### Obnoxious aggression

- You don't have to choose between being a competent asshole and being incompetently nice.
- Fear of being labeled a jerk that pushes people towards Manipulative Insincerity and Ruinous Empathy
- Behaviors of Obnoxious Aggression
  - Belitting employees
  - Embarrassing them in public
  - Freezing them out

#### Obnoxiously aggressive criticism (front-stabbing)

- Obnoxious Aggression is a behavior, not a personality trait.
- Nobody is an asshole all the time
  - All of us are obnoxiously aggressive some of the time.
- Fundamental human decency is something every person owes every other, regardless of position.
- Criticism can be obnoxiously aggressive if you don't care personally.
- Do not talk about a person's character, either positively or negatively. Do not personalize.

#### Obnoxiously aggressive praise (Belittling compliments)

### Manipulative Incinserity

- Manipulatively insincere guidance happens when you don't care enough about a person to challenge directly.
- People give praise and criticism that is manipulatively incinsere when they are too focused on being liked or think they can gain some sort of political advantage by being fake.
- Leadership is sometimes about being willing to piss people off.
- Give a damn about the people you challenge.
- Worrying about whether or not they give a damn about you is not "caring personally"

#### Manipulatively incinsere praise (The false apology)

- When you behave badly and get called out for it, a natural response is to become less genuine and more political.
  - To move from Obnoxious Aggression to Manipulative Insincerity (a worse place)

### Ruinous Empathy

- Is responsible for the vast majority of management mistakes.
- Most people want to avoid creating tension or discomfort at work.
- The result of Ruinous Empathy is that an employee's chance of success is decreased and the entire team is handicapped by letting poor performance slide.
- Can prevent a boss from asking for criticism.
- Instead of pushing an employee to challenge them, bosses may be so eager to ease the awkwardness that they simply let the matter drop.
- This can lead to a work environment where "being nice" is prioritized at the expense of critiquing, and therefore, improving actual performance.

#### Ruinously empathetic praise ("Just trying to say something nice")

- When giving praise, investigate until you really understand who did what and why it was so great.
- Be specific and thorough with praise as with criticism.
- Go deep into the details.

### Moving toward Radical Candor

- Start by getting feedback.
- When you do start giving it, start with praise, not criticism.
- When you move to criticism, make sure you understand where the perilous border between Radical Candor and Obnoxious Aggression is.

#### Start by asking for criticism, not by giving it (Don't dish it out before you show you can take it)

- When building a culture of Radical Candor, why is it better to start by asking others for criticism
  - It's best to show that you are aware that you are often wrong
    - You want to hear about when you are; you want to be challenged
  - You'll learn a lot
    - few people scrutinize you as closely as do  those who report to you.
  - The more experience you have with receiving criticism, the better idea you'll have of how your own guidance lands with others.
  - Is a great way to build trust and strengthen your relationships.
- If someone is bold enough to criticize you, do not critique their criticism.
- If someone is criticizing a peer inappropriately, say something.
- If someone criticizes you inappropriately, your job is to listen with the intent to understand and then to reward the candor.
- Encourage criticism between your team members.
- The key to soliciting criticism is not to react defensively.

#### Balance praise and criticism (Worry more about praise, less about criticism--but above all be sincere)

- Why is it important to give more praise than criticism?
  - It guides people in the right direction.
    - It's just as important to let people know what to do more of as what to do less of.
  - It encourages people to keep improving.
    - It does more than just make people feel good.
    - It can actually challenge them directly.
- The notion of a "right" ratio between praise and criticism is dangerous.
  - Can lead you to say things that are unnatural, insincere, or just plain ridiculous.
- Patronizing or insincere praise will erode trust and hurt your relationships just as much as overly harsh criticism.
- Whether praising or criticizing, it's important to be aware of _how_ you're saying it.
- Ideally, you'd spend just as long getting the facts right for praise as for criticism.

#### Understand the perilous border between Obnoxious Aggression and Radical Candor ("Your work is shit")

> The most important thing I think you can do for somebody who's really good and who's really being counted on is to point out to them when they're not--when their work isn't good enough. And to do it very clearly and to articulate why...and to get them back on track.

- Important distinction when one's _work_ isn't good enough versus when _someone_ isn't good enough.
- The fundamental attribution error highlights the role of personal traits rather than external causes.
  - It's easier to find fault in the person than to look for the fault within the context of what that person is doing.
  - It's easier to say, "You're sloppy" than to say, "You've been working nights and weekends, and it's starting to take a toll on your ability to catch mistakes in your logic"
    - But it's also far less helpful.
- For criticism to be effective, it's crucial to be clear and articulate as to _why_.

> You need to do that in a way that does not call into question your confidence in their abilities but leaves not too much room for interpretation...and that's a hard thing to do.

- Nature of your relationship with your employee is key when using specific words
  - e.g. "your work is shit", calling someone a dumbass
- It is difficult to reassure people that you have confidence in their abilities while simultaneously making it clear that you think the work is not good enough.
  - It can sometimes feel like you're just being mean.
- How do you criticize without discouraging a person?
  - Focus on your relationship
    - Ask for criticism before giving it
    - offer more praise than criticism
  - Be humble
  - Be helpful
  - Offer guidance in person and immediately
  - Praise in public
  - Criticize in private
  - Don't personalize
- People who are more concerned with getting to the right answer than with being right make the best bosses.

#### Think of a simple example ("Your fly is down")

- One way of solving a hard problem is to think of a simpler but similar one.
- Example: Someone's fly is down and you need to let them know
  - Ruinous Empathy: Silent--worred about his feelings
  - Radical Candor: Whisper that his fly is down
  - Manipulative Insincerity: Silent--worried about your feelings
  - Obnoxious Aggression: Shout that his fly is down
- Simple advice about criticism: "Just say it"
- 