# 3. Understand What Motivates Each Person On Your Team
----

### Rethinking Ambition

- Return to "care personally"
- Need to understand how each person's job fits into their life goals.
- Building a team is hard.
- To keep a team cohesive, you need both rock stars and superstars.
  - Rock stars love their work; they've found their grove.
    - They don't want the next job if it will them away from their craft.
    - If you honor and reward the rock stars, they'll become the people you most rely on.
    - If you promote them into roles they don't want or aren't suited for, you'll lose them or wind up firing them
  - Superstars need to be challenged and given new opportunities to grow constantly
- To distinguish between the two, let go of your judgements and your own ambitions.
  - Focus on getting to know each person as a human being.
  - Rethink ambition
```
Steep Growth Trajectory  |  Gradual Growth Trajectory
------------------------------------------------------
Change agent             |  Force for stability
Ambitious at work        |  Ambitious outside of work / content in life
Want new opportunities   |  Happy in the current role
"Superstar"              |  "Rock star"
```

- Some people do not want the next, bigger job.
- Don't think about people in terms of "potential", think in terms of "growth"
  - Think about what opportunities to give to which people on their teams
- Sometimes people want to grow and are capable of contributing more than they have been allow to
- Sometimes they simply want more money or recognition but don't really want to change the way they work or contribute any more than they do already.
- Questions to ask yourself
  - "What growth trajectory does each person on my team want to be on right now?"
  - "Have I given everybody opportunities that are in line with what they really want?"
  - "What growth trajectory do my direct reports believe they are on? Do I agree? And if I don't, why don't I?"
- The insights these questions produce can help avoid burning out the rock stars and boring the superstars.
- Words matter.

#### Growth Management ("It's getting better all the time")

- Creativity flourishes, efficiency improves, people enjoy working together when shifting from a traditional "talent management" mind-set to one of "growth management"
- The most important thing you can do for your team collectively is to understand what growth trajectory each person wants to be on at a given time and whether that matches the needs and opportunities of the team.
- Stability is as important as growth.
- When assessing a person's past performance, consider both their results and more intangible things like "teamwork".
- Expected results for a given quarter or year are ideally set by the employee
  - Needs to be as objective and as measurable as possible.
- Performance is not a permanent label.
- Future is best described by each person's current "growth trajectory"

#### Understanding What Matters and Why

- Learn what each person's long-term ambitions are
  - How does their current circumstances fit into their motivations and their life goals
- Only when you get to know your direct reports, on a personal level, can you truly understand whom to put in the right roles and assign the right projects to the right people.
- "Steep growth" is generally characterized by rapid change--learning new skills or deepening existing ones quickly.
- Individual contributors can remain on a steep growth trajectory their entire careers.
- Steep growth should not be thought of as narrowly as "promotion."
  - It's about having an increased impact over time.
- Gradual growth is characterized by stability.
- Those on gradual growth trajectory tend to make incremental rather than sudden, dramatic improvements.
- Some roles may be better suited to a rock star because they require steadiness, accumulated knowledge, and an attention to detail that someone in a superstar phase might not have the focus or patience for.
- People in superstar phase are bad at rock star roles and vice versa.
- People shift between gradual growth and steep growth trajectories in different phases of their lives and careers.
  - Remember, it's not a permanent label.
- Generally, an ambition or a commitment outside of work enhances a person's value to the team.

#### The Problem With "Passion"

- People do better work when they find that work meaningful.
- Insisting that people have passion for their job, however, can place unnecessary pressure on both boss and employee.
- There's nothing wrong with working hard to earn a paycheck that supports the life you want to lead.
- Your job is not to provide purpose but instead to get to know each of your direct reports well enough to understand how each one derives meaning from their work.
- Your job is to rtecognize the significance of everyone's motivations and to create working conditions that allows everyone to find meaning in their own way.

#### Excellent Performance (Keep your top performers top of mind)

- Your role is to provide your superstars and rock stars everything they need to continue doing great work.
- **Be a partner, not an absentee manager or a micromanager**
- One of the most common mistakes bosses make is to ignore the people who are doing the best work because "they don't need me" or "I don't want to micromanage"
  - Ignoring someone is a terrible way to build a relationship
- You must take the time to help the people doing the best work overcome obstacles and make their good work even better.
- Requires that you know enough about the details of the person's work to understand the nuances.
- Often times, you have to help do the work, not just advising.

#### Excellent Performance/Gradual Growth Trajectory (Recognize, reward, but don't promote)

- The best way to manage rock stars is to recognize them.
  - Not necessarily by promotion
    - Promotion can put these people in roles that they are not as well-suited for or don't want
  - Sometimes it's a bonus or a raise
  - If they like public speaking, get them to present at an all-hands meeting or other big events.
  - If they like teaching, get them to onboard new people
  - If they are shy, thank them privately for the work they do
  - Consider, carefully, tenure awards.

**Fair performance ratings**
- When performance ratings have an impact on compensation, it is important to consider top ratings carefully.

**Recognition**
- A great way to recognize people in a rock star phase is to designate them as "gurus" or "go-to" expoerts.
- This means putting them in charge of teaching newer team members, if they show the aptitude for it.
- Generally, people who are great at a job enjoy teaching it to others
  - Giving them this role can improve the performance of the wholte team
  - Giving them this role can give the rock stars a different sort of recognition
- The teaching role should be an honor, not a requirement.
- Some don't want to be the "go-to" expert and may be driven off from the interruptions of questions.
- Honoring tenure is a good alternative to promotions.

**Respect**
- The idea of climbing a corporate ladder is not inspiring for many people.
  - Often, people on the gradual growth trajectory are referred to perjoratively as "B-players" or as having "capped out"
- To manage these people well, it's important to reject these derogatory characterizations.
- Good bosses are lucky to find people who love doing the work they do without the need for advancement.

**The dangers of promotion obsession**
- Be wary of promoting people beyond their level of competence
- Be wary of promoting people who are competent but lack the desire for it at that moment in their lives.
- Don't force promotions on people who don't want it; you may end up losing a good employee

#### Excellent Performance/Steep Growth Trajectory (Keep superstars challenged)

**Keep them challenged (and figure out who'll replace them when they move on)**
- Best way to keep superstars happy is to challenge them and make sure they are constantly learning.
  - Give them new opportunities, even if it is sometimes more work than seems feasible for one person to do.
  - Figure out what the next job for them will be.
  - Build an intellectual partnership with them.
  - Find them mentors from outside your team or organization--people who have more to offer than you do.
- Make sure you don't get too dependent on them;
- Ask them to teach others
- Think of these people as shooting stars--they'll be in your orbit for a little while, but trying to hold them there is futile.

**Don't squash them or block them**
- Recognize that you'll probably be working for them one day.
- Allowing transfers is important because it prevents bosses from blackballing employees who want to move on
  - Allows for the fact that sometimes two people just don't work well together

**Not every superstar wants to manage**
- Management and growth should not be conflated.
- Putting someone uninterested in a management position can lead to a frustrated manager and a demoralized and poorly managed team
- Promotion to management is not the only way to reward superstars
  - You can argue that this mindset caps the trajectory for a superstar
- When people become bosses just to "get ahead," they become bosses from hell.
- When management is the only path to higher compensation, the quality of management suffers.

#### Managing the Middle (Raise the bar--there's no such thing as a B-player)

- The worst case of Ruinous Empathy that a manager can do is allow someone to wallow in a position that they hold because
  1. The manager is unsure they can find a better replacement
  2. The manager likes the person
  3. It takes time and effort to train new people
  4. The person is pressured by external forces to keep the position
- Treating these people fairly requires that you know them well enough to understand why they aren't thriving.
- Accepting medocrity isn't good for anybody.
- Your job as the boss is to set and uphold a quality bar.
- Everyone can be exceptional somewhere; it is your job to help them find that role.
- Your job is to help your employee find the role that they can shine it, even if it means letting them go.

#### Poor Performance/Negative Growth Trajectory (Part ways)

- You must fire someone when
  - They are performing poorly
  - They have been given clear communication about the nature of the problem
  - They are showing no signs of improvement
- How you do it goes a long way to defining your long-term success as a boss.
  - It sends a clear signal on your team whether or not you truly care about people for more than what they can do for you on the job.
- Avoiding the act of firing someone comes with negative consequences for everyone.
- Approach firing thoughtfully and deliberately.

**How do you know when it's time to fire somebody?**
- Three questions to consider
  - Have you given them Radically Candid guidance?
    - Have you demonstrated that you care perosnally?
    - Have you been clear when you have challenged them to improve?
    - Has your praise been substantive and specific about what they have done right, rather than simply a salve to their ego?
    - Have you been humble as well as direct in your criticism, offering to help them find solutions rather than attacking them as a person?
    - Have you done these things on multiple occasions over time?
    - If the answer is yes and there's been no improvement, it's time.
  - Do you understand the impact of their performance on their colleagues?
    - Generally, by the time one of your direct report's poor performance has come to your attention, it's been driving their peers nuts for a long time.
  - Have you sought advice from others?
    - Getting a second opinion, an outside perspective, can help make sure you're being fair.
    - Talk to somebody who has experience firing someone.

**Common lies managers tell themselves to avoid firing somebody who needs to be fired**
1. It will get better.
2. Somebody is better than nobody.
    - Poor performers often create as much extra work for others as they accomplish themselves
    - They leave parts of their job undone or do other parts sloppily
    > It's better to have a hole 
3. A transfer is the answer.
4. It's bad for morale.
    - Keeping someone on who can't do the job is far worse for morale--yours, the person who's doing a bad job, and everyone else who's doing a great job.

**Be Radically Candid with the person you're firing**
- It's important not to distance yourself from the person you're about to fire.
- Remember the following:
  - When you fire someone, you create the possibility for the person to excel and find happiness performing meaningful work elsewhere.
    - Try to reframe the problem, for you and the person you're firing
      - It's not the person who sucks, it's the job that sucks--at least for this person.
      - What job would be great for that person?
      - Can you help them by making an introduction?
  - Retaining people who are doing bad work penalizes the people doing excellent work.
    - Work undone generally winds up getting picked up by the top performers, overburdening them.
    - In practice, morale has always improved once a poor performer was removed.
    - You could lose people you want to keep by retaining a low performer for too long.

#### Low Performance/Steep Growth Trajectory

**Manager, look at yourself in the mirror**

**Wrong role**
- If you put someone in the wrong role, their poor performance is actually your fault.
  - If this is the case, you want to put the person in a better role.

**New to role; too much too fast**
- When you hire someone who has never done a job before, they sometimes take longer than expected to progress.
- If the person gives you reason to believe they can be great in a role--if they show signs of "spiking"--it's worth investing more.
- Another mistake bosses sometimes make is to dump too much on a person all at once.

**Personal problems**
- Life happens; people can stop performing well due to personal problems.
- If it's temporary, it's best simply to give people the time they need to get back on track.

**Poor fit**
- Could be a misalignment between the culture of the group and the individual's personality.
- If the "fit" isn't right, it can be painful for everyone.
- If neither the person nor the culture can change, it's best to part ways.
- You generally can't fix a cultural-fit issue.

#### No Permanent Markers (People change, and you have to change with them)

- Being a great boss involves constantly adjusting to the new reality of the day of week or year as it unfolds.
- You can't adjust if you haven't been paying attention to the person.
- Care personally; don't put people in boxes and leave them there.
