# 4. Drive Results Collaboratively
----

### Telling People What To Do Didn't Work At Google

- Ultimate goal of Radical Candor is to achieve collaboratively what you could never achieve individually.
- You'll get more done if you take the time to incorporate their thinking into yours, and yours into theirs.
- Involve your team in decision-making.
- Explain why and persuade the team on your decisions.
- You'll get better results if you lay your power down and work more collaboratively.

### Telling People What To Do Didn't Work For Steve Jobs Either

- Focus on "getting things right" as opposed to "being right"

### The Art of Getting Stuff Done Without Telling People What To Do

- "Get Stuff Done" (GSD) wheel (pg. 81)
- Avoid the impule to dive right in; instead, you have to first lay the groundwork for collaboration
- Listen to the ideas that people on your team have and create a culture in which they listen to each other.
- Create space in which ideas can be sharpened and clarified
  - Make sure these ideas don't get crushed before everyone fully understands their potential usefulness.
  - Remember, just because an idea is easy to understand doesn't mean it's a good one.
- Debate ideas and test them rigorously.
- Then decide.
- Because not everyone will have been involved in the listen-clarify-debate-decide part of the cycle, the next step is to bring the broader team along.
- Persuade those who weren't involved in a decision that it was a good one.
  - This allows everyone to execute it effectively.
- Once executed, learn from the results.
- Whether it was right or not, start the whole process again.
- Not skipping a step and not getting stuck on a tep are equally important.

#### Listen

- A manager's most important role is to give the quiet ones a voice.
- Your goal is to ensure that everyone is heard.
- Find a way to listen that fits your personal style, then create a culture in which everyone listens to each other, so that all the burden of listening doesn't fall on you.

**Quiet listening**

- Keeping facial expression and body language neutral, sit in silence, listening.
- There are advantages and disadvantages
  - Disadvantages
    - When people don't know what you think, they waste a lot of time trying to guess.
    - They may use your name in vain, "the boss wants this" when they're just expressing what _they_ want.
    - It can make people feel uncomfortable.
  - Advantages
    - People may tell you far more than they had intended
    - People may tell you what they really feel instead of what you want to hear
- To get others to say what they think, you need to say what you think sometimes.
- If you want to be challenged, you need to be willing to challenge.

**Loud listening*

- Saying things intended to get a reaction out of them.
- This only works when people feel confident enough to challenge you.
- "Strong opinions, weakly held"
  - Going to great lengths to encourage disagreement
  - State position strongly, then invite them to poke holes in the idea.
- Offers a quick way to expose opposing points of view or flaws in reasoning.
- Prevents people from wasting a lot of time trying to figoure out what the boss thinks.
- Stick to the style that feels most natural to you.

**Create a culture of listening**

- Getting team members to listen to each other is harder.
- The keys are
  - Have a simple system for employees to use to generate ideas and voice complaints
  - Make sure that at least some of the issues raised are quickly addressed
  - Regularly offer explanations as to why the other issues aren't being addressed
- This system enables others to help fix things or make changes
- Define clear boundaries of how much time you can spend--and then make sure that time is highly impactful
- Inspire people who have ideas to be vocal about them.
- Encourage team members to listen to each other's ideas and to take them seriously.
  - Even implement them without waiting for management's blessing.
- It's easy to lose "small" ideas in big organizations
  - If you do, you kill incremental innovation.
- With this culture, people will start to fix things you as the boss never even knew were broken.
- Can help morale soar.
- Sometimes creating a culture of lstening is simply a matter of managing meetings the right way.
- Part of the job is to constantly figure out new ways to "give the quiet ones a voice"

**Adapt to a culture of listening**

- Take the time to get to know people and just listen
  - Builds trust
  - Shows you care deeply

#### Clarify

- Push yourself and your direct reports to understand and convey thoughts more clearly.
- Solving a problem that's not clearly defined will not result in a good solution.
- As the boss, you are the editor, not the author.
- It's not just important to understand new ideas clearly; it's equally important, and often more difficult, to understand the people to whom your team will have to explain the ideas clearly.

**Be clear in your own mind (Create a safe space to nurture new ideas)**

- Part of your job as the boss is to help people think through their ideas before submitting them to debate.
- Research shows that when companies help people develop new ideas by creating the space and time to clarify their thinking, innovation flourishes.
- 1:1s should be a safe place for your direct reports to come and talk to you about new ideas.
- Point out problems with ideas with the aim of figuring a way around those problems.

**Be clear to others (Make thoughts/ideas drop-dead easy for others to comprehend)**

- If we fail to know the person to whom we are explaining a subject, we may fail to get our idea across.
- You'll be heard more accurately if you take the time to understand the people you are talking to.
- You need to push them to communicate with such precision and clarity that it's impossible not to grasp their argument.

#### Debate

- Debate phase is necessary to persuade everyone who needs to execute.
- You don't have to be at every debate--you shouldn't be.
  - Need to make sure there is a culture of debate on your team.
- Your job as a boss is to turn on the "rock tumbler"
- Debate takes time and requires emotional energy.
- Some ideas for spurring on debate:

**Keep the conversation focused on ideas not egos**

- Nothing is a bigger time-sucker or blocked to getting it right than ego.
- Your job is to intervene when you start to sense people are thinking "me vs them"
  - Redirect them to focus on the facts
  - Don't allow people to attribute ownership to ideas.
  - Don't get hijacked by how others who aren't in the room might feel.
- Set ground rules at the beginning of the meeting.
- You can have people switch roles and argue for the opposite point.

**Create an obligation to dissent**

- If everyone involved agrees, that's a red flag.
- Someone has to take up the dissenting voice.

**Pause for emotion/exhaustion**

- Crucial to be aware when people are too tired, burnt out, or emotionally charged to engage in productive debate.
- Your job is to intervene and call a time-out.
- Defer the debate until people are in a better frame of mind.

**Use humor and have fun**

- The spirit with which a debate is launched often determines the tenor of what follows.
- What you say is less important than the tone it conveys, and the mood it sets for what follows.
- Be aware that not everyone enjoys debate.

**Be clear when the debate will end**

- Some people expects a decision at the end of the meeting and some want to keep debating in a follow-up meeting.
- Ways to avoid this:
  - Separate debate meetings with decision meetings.
  - Have a "decide by" date next to each item being debating.

**Don't grab a decision just because the debate has gotten painful**

- When debates become to painful, people begin to look to the boss to make a decision.
- A boss's job is to keep the debate going rather than to resolve it with a decision.
- It's the debates that help individuals grow and help the team work better collectively to come up with the best answer.
- If debates get to rancorous, ask how you could help.

#### Decide

- Push decisions into the facts, or pull the facts into the decisions, but keep ego out.

**You're not the decider (usually)**

- It's a bad thing when the most "senior" people in a hierarchy are always the deciders.
- Most kick-ass bosses often do not decide themselves.
- Most kick-ass bosses create a clear decision-making process that empowers people closest to the facts to make as many decisions as possible.
  - This results in both better decisions and better morale.

**The decider should get facts, not recommendations**

- People tend to put their egos into recommendations in a way that can lead to politics.
- Seek facts, not recommendations.

**Go spelunking**

- As boss, you have the right to delve into any details that seem interesting or important to you.
- You don't have to stay "high level" all the time.
- Sometimes you will be the decider.
- When you are the decider, it's important to go to the source of the facts.
  - You don't want the facts to go through layers of people
  - Go right to the person(s) involved
  - The more often you can do that, the more empowered your whole organization feels.

#### Persuade

- Expecting others to execute on a decision without being persuaded that it's the right thing to do is a recipe for terrible results.
- Explaining the decision is not enough; That only addresses logic and you need to address emotions as well.
- Must establish that the decier, whether that's you or someone on the team, has credibility if you expect others to execute on the decision.
- Authoritarian bosses tend to be particularly weak persuaders.
- But even more democratic, open bosses get lost in explaining the rationale for a decision that they forget how people must feel about it, or vice versa.
- The line between persuasion and manipulation can be a fine one.
- Aristotle's elements of rhetoric--pathos, logos, and ethos--translates loosely as emotion, logic, and credibility.

**Emotion (The listener's emotions, not the speaker's)

- If you fail to account for your listener's emotions, you won't be persuasive.

**Credibility (Demonstrate expertise and humility)

- Part of it is knowing your subject and demonstrating a track record of sound decisions.
- Requires humility.
- Be humble and invoke a "we" and not an "I" whenever possible.

**Logic (Show your work)**

- When you know something deeply, it's hard to remember that others don't.

#### Execute

- As the boss, part of your job is to take a lot of the "collaboration tax" on yourself so that your team can spend more time executing.
- Three things for balancing your responsibilites:
  - Don't waste your team's time;
  - Keep the "dirt under your fingernals";
  - Block time to execute

**Don't waste your team's time**

**Keep the "dirt under your fingernails"**

- In order to be a good partner to the team, you need to stay connected to the actual work that is being done--not just by observing others executing but by executing yourself.
- You need to learn to toggle between leading and executing personally.
- If you get too far away from the work your team is doing, you won't understand their ideas well enough to help them clarify, to participate in debates, to know which decisions to push them to make, to teach them to be more persuasive.

**Block time to execute**

- Often, execution is a solitary task.
- One of your jobs as a manager is to make sure that collaborative tasks don't consume so much of your time or your team's time that there's no time to execute whatever plan has been decided on and accepted.

#### Learn

- Good bosses learn from mistakes and successes alike and keep improving.
- Two enormous pressures that prevent you from learning
  - Pressure to be consistent
  - Burnout

**Pressure to be consistent**

- When facts change, be able to change your mind.
- The key is communication.
- If you have to change course on something, you have to be able to explain clearly and convincingly why things have changed.

**Burnout**

- You have to take care of yourself, first and foremost.