# 5. Relationships
----

- Too much emphasis on shareholder value actualy destroys value, as well as morale.
- There's a chicken-and-egg interaction between your relationships and your responsibilities.
- You can't fulfill your responsibilities without good relationships, but the way in which you fulfill your responsibilities is integral to those relationships.

#### Stay Centered

- You can't give a damn about others if you don't give a damn about yourself.
- Hard times are made much harder when you're not at your best.
- The eseence of leadership is not getting overwhelmed by circumstances.

**Work-life integration**

- Be relentlessly insistent on bringing your fullest and best self to work--and taking it back home again.

**Figure out your "recipe" to stay centered and stick to it**

- Prioritize doing it (but not overdoing it) when times get tough.
- Focus on making time for whatever keeps you centered when you are stressed and busy than when things are relatively calm.

**Calendar**

- Put things you need to do for yourself on your calendar.

**Show up for yourself**

- Don't blow off those meetings with yourself.

#### Free At Work

- The first rule of building the kind of relationship with the people that will make them feel free at work is to relinquish unilateral authority.
  - This will take enormous discipline.
  - It's natural to crave a little control.
> If you have to use someone else's name or authority to get a point across, there is little merit to the point (you might not believe it yourself). If you believe something to be correct, focus on showing your work to prove it. Authority derives naturally from merit, not the other way around.
- Unilateral authority is easily hijacked by expediency or narrow self-interest.

#### Master the Art of Socializing at Work

- Spending time with people from work in a more relaxed setting can be a good way to build relationships.
- Generally, it's better to use the time after work to keep yourself centered than to socialize with work colleagues.

**Even non-mandatory events can feel mandatory**

- Social pressure can drag some people into situations they'd rather avoid.
- Sometimes the greatest gift you can give your team is to let them go home.

**Booze**

- A drink or two can be a social lubricant.
  - It can also backfire, badly.

#### Respect Boundaries

- Building Radically Candid relationships require you to walk a fine line between respecting other people's boundaries and encouraging them to bring their whole selves to work.

**Building trust**

- Building trust in any relationship takes time.
- Trust is built on a consistent pattern of acting in good faith.
- Don't trust too much, too quickly.
  - Like asking someone a deeply personal question when you barely know them.
- On the other hand, if you never ask a single question about a person's life, it's hard to move up on the "care personally" axis.
- Most important thing you can do is to spend a little time alone with each of your direct reports on a regular basis.
  - Regular 1:1s
  - Direct report sets the agenda
- The way you ask for criticism and react when you get it goes a long way toward building your destroying a relationship.

**Sharing values**

- An exercise that requires people to talk publicly about their values may drive a wedge rather than help people find what they have in common.
  - Developing one's values can take a lifetime, only to be cheapened by a 45 minute exercise
  - For some, it can be helpful to articulate their values explicitly, but for others, it's impossible to do it in a meaningful way.
  - Some believe that their values are a deeply private set of beliefs that they don't want to discuss with their colleagues.
- Live your values. Don't try and list them like an HR exercise.

**Demonstrating openness**

- You need to respect other people's value when they do share them with you.
- It's crucially important in Radically Candid relationships to be open to the possibility of connecting with people who have different worldviews.
- The work is the bond everyone on a team does share, and the most productive way to strengthen that bond is by learning how to work together in ways that benefit everyone involved.

**Physical space**

- Respect physical boundaries

**Recognizing your own emotions**

- Repressing negative feelings tends not to work.
- You can't successfully hide how you feel from people who work closely with you.
- The best you can do is own up to how you feel and what's going on in the rest of your life, so others don't feel your mood is their fault.
- Mental health days should be taken more seriously than they are.

**Master your reactions to others' emotions**

- Many people cross a dangerous emotional boundary when they become the boss.
  - They try to manage other people's emotions.
  - This is a **big** overstep.
- All people, even your direct reports, are responsible for their own emotional lives.
- To build Radically Candid relationships, do not try to prevent, control, or manage other people's emotions.
- Do acknowledge them and react compassionately.
- Do try to master your reactions to other people's emotions.
- Some pointers for reacting compassionately at work:
  - Acknowledge emotions
  - Ask questions
  - Adding your guilt to other people's difficult emotions doesn't make them feel better
    - Just because someone is crying or yelling doesn't mean you've done anything wrong; it just means they are upset.
  - Telling other people how to feel will backfire
  - If you really can't handle emotional outburts, forgive yourself
    - It's okay to excuse yourself from an interaction if someone's emotional outburts is too much to deal with.
    - Excuse yourself and promise to address it later.
  - Keep tissues a short walk away from your desk
  - Keep some closed bottles of water at your desk
  - Walk, don't sit
    - When walking, emotions are less on display and less likely to start resonating in a destructive way.
    - Walking and looking in the same direction often feels more collaborative than sitting across from and staring at each other.
