# 6. Guidance
----

- Gduiance is the "atomic building block" of management, but it is profoundly uncomfortable for most people.
- You need to get, give, and encourage both praise and criticism.

### Soliciting Impromptu Guidance - Embrace the discomfort

- What are things you can do to get criticism from your team?
- People generally do not want to criticize you or tell you what they really think.
- People's impression of you can and will change when you become a boss.
- To some degree, once you assume the role of boss, you'll be fighting preconceptions.

**You are the exception to the "criticize in private" rule of thumb**

- Encourage your team to criticize you in public
  - You get the chance to show your team that you genuinely want the criticism.
  - Set the ideal for the team as a whole: everyone should embrace criticism that helps us do our jobs better.
- It's natural to want to repress dissent.
- A good reaction to public criticism can establish your credibility as a strong leader.

**Have a go-to question**

> Is there anything I could do or stop doing that would make it easier to work with me?
- This question is meant to get things moving.

**Embrace the discomfort**

- Most people will initially respond with something along the lines of "oh, everything's fine"
- It's essential to prepare yourself for these scenarios in advance and commit to st icking with the conversation until you have a genuine response.
- One technique is to count to six before saying anything else.
- Goal is not to be a bully but to insist on a candid discussion.
  - Make it harder to say nothing than it is to tell you what's on their mind.
- Notice body language.
  - If it's at odds with what they're saying, point it out.

**Listen with intent to understand, not to respond**

- Don't start criticizing the criticism.
- Listen to and clarify the criticism, but don't debate it.
- It's natural to feel defensive and have the urge to explain yourself. Don't.
- Manage your feelings rather than letting them manage you.
- Your job is to listen with intent to understand, not to defend yourself.

**Reward criticism to get more of it**

- If you agree with the criticism, make a change as soon as possible.
  - If it takes time, do something visible to show that you're trying.
- There will be cases where you disagree with the criticism.
  - Find something in the criticism you can agree with, to signal that you're open to criticism.
  - Check for understanding.
  - Let them know you want to think about what they said and schedule a time to talk about it again.
    - This is essential.
  - Explain exactly why you disagree.
    - Give a thoughful, respectful explanation of why not.
    - Sometimes they'll come around, sometimes they won't.

**Gauge the guidance you get**

- Try recording how much criticism you're getting.
  - And how much praise.

### Orange Box - Make it not just safe but natural to criticize you

### Management "Fix-It" Weeks

- Like hack weeks but dedicated to management to fix management things

### Giving Impromptu Guidance

- If you don't lead by example, the people on your team are unlikely to guide each other.

#### Be Humble

- A huge part of what makes giving guidance so valuable is that misperceptions on both sides of the equation get corrected.

**Situation, behavior, impact**

- Describe three things when giving feedback:
  - The situation you saw
  - The behavior
  - The impact your observed
- This helps avoid making judgements about the person's intelligence, common sense, innate goodness, or other personal attributes.
- Applies to praise as well as to criticism.
- Easy to sound arrogant or patronizing--using the steps above helps.

**Left-hand-column**

- Helps leaders avoid letting arrogant snap judgements seep out into their guidance.
- How to do this exercise
  - Take a clean sheet of paper, draw a line down the middle.
  - Write down what you said in the right-hand column.
  - Write down what you thought in the left-hand column.
  - Did what you think spill out into what you said?
- Goal is to not just say what's in the left-hand column, but to have the humility to question what you're thinking.

**"Ontological Humility"**

- Do not conufse objective reality with our subjective experience.

#### Be Helpful

- You have to find a way to help them clarify the challenge they're facing--that clarity is a gift that will enable them to move forward.

**Stating your intention to be helpful can lower defenses**

**Show, don't tell**

- The more clearly you show exactly what is good or bad, the more helpful your guidance will be.
- It is tempting to avoid describing the details because they can be painful.
  - This retreat to abstractions is a prime example of Ruinous Empathy.
- Same principle goes for praise.
- Be explicit.

**Finding help is better than offering it yourself**

**Guidance is a gift, not a whip or a carrot**

- Sometimes the only help you may have to offer is the conversation itself.

#### Give feedback immediately

- Essential to give guidance as quickly and as informally as possible.
- We are naturally inclined to delay/avoid confrontation.
- Delaying makes everything about it harder.
- Often, it's good to delay if either you or the other team member is not in a good frame of mind.
  - This is the exception, not the rule.
- There is a difference between saying it right away and nitpicking
  - If it's not important, don't say it right away or at all.

**Say it in 2-3 minutes between meetings**

- Guidance doesn't always have to be hour long conversations.
- Impromptu guidance is something you can squeeze in between meetings.

**Keep slack time in your calendar, or be willing to be late**

**Don't "save up" guidance for a 1:1 or a performance review**

- Formal processes--1:1s, performance reviews, happiness surveys--are meant to reinforce, not substitute.

**Guidance has a short half-life**

- Waiting too long can result in the problem not being fixable or easily built upon.

**Unspoken criticism explodes like a dirty bomb**

- Don't bottle things up.

**Avoid black holes**

- Let people know immediately how their work is being received.
- Let people present their own work whenever possible.

#### In person (if possible)

- Best to deliver guidance in person.
- Don't know if the other person understood what you say if you can't see the reaction.
- If somebody is upset, this gives you the opportunity to show compassion.
- Emotional response of the other person helps you better understand how your message landed.

**Immediate vs. in person**

**Hierarchy of modes**

- Video call is second best.
- Phone for voice.
- Email and texting should be avoided if at all possible.

**Multiple modes**

- Praising at a public all-hands is a great way to share significant accomplishments.
- Following up in person in a 1:1 carried more emotional weight.
- Following up with an email to the whole team carried more lasting weight.

**Reply All do's and don'ts**

- If you must criticize someone, do NOT hit reply all.
- Do make small praises with reply all
  - Signals that you notice and appreciate what's going on around you
  - Obviously better if you can mention it in person

**Being in a remote office is hard**

- Important to have quick, frequent interactions.
- Helps to pick up on emotional cues.

#### Praise in public, criticize in private

- Rule of thumb; not a hard and fast rule.

**Corrections, factual observations, disagreements, and debates are different from criticism**

**Adapt to an individual's preferences**

- Being praised in public for some can be painful.
- Part of caring personally is knowing whom to praise in public and whom to praise in private.

**Group learning**

#### Don't personalize

- Difference between caring personally and personalizing.

**The "fundamental attribution error" will harm the effectiveness of your guidance**

- Making a fundamental attribution error is using perceived personality attributes--"You're stupid, lazy, greedy, hypocritical, asshole," etc.--to explain someone else's behavior rather than considering one's own behavior and/or the situational factors that were probably the real cause of the other person's behavior.
- This is a problem because:
  - It's generally inaccurate
  - It renders an otherwise solvable problem really hard to fix since changing core personality attributes is so very difficult and time-consuming.
- Use situational, behavior, impact, or the left-hand column techniques to be humble and to avoid personalizing.

**Say "that's wrong" not "you're wrong"**

**The phrase "don't take it personally" is worse than useless**

- Even if you don't personalize, feedback is personal to the person receiving it.
- Part of your job as a boss (and as a human being) is to acknowledge and deal with emotional responses, not to dismiss or avoid them.

**How not to personalize even when it really is personal**

### Gauge Your Impromptu Guidance, Get a Baseline, Track Your Improvements

- Get guidance on your guidance.
- Important to figure out how others experience your guidance.

### Being Radically Candid With Your Boss

- If you can not be radically candid with your boss, consider finding a new job with a new boss.
- If they are receptive to guidance, start with something small and benign--and see how they react.
- Be helpful, humble, do it immediately and in person, praise in public, criticize in private, and don't personalize.
- One of the most difficult things as a middle manager, is that you often wind up responsible for executing decisions that you disagree with.
  - If you tell the team you do agree with the decisions, you feel like a liar or inauthentic.
  - If you tell your team that you don't agree, you look weak, insubordinate, or both.
- Being able to be Radically Candor with your boss allows you to understand their rationale behind decisions
  - And thus able to relay that understanding to the team, even if you disagree with it.
- Listen, Challenge, Commit
- A strong leader has the humility to listen, the confidence to challenge, and the wisdom to know when to quit arguing and to get on board.

### Gender and Guidance

- Gender differences make guidance harder to give for both men and women, but in very different ways.

**Why Radical Candor may be harder for men managing women**

- Most men are trained to be "gentler" with woman than with men.
  - Sometimes this can be very bad for the women who work for them.
  - You may find you have a reluctance to criticize women more than men who work for you.
- Remember, it's your job to manage your fear and not pull your punches when criticizing.
- The pervasive atmosphere of anxiety around gender issues has everybody walking on eggshells and avoiding important truths.

**Why gender bias makes Radical Candor harder for women**

- One common bias women fall prey to: the "Abrasive Trap"
  - When women challenge directly--which they must do to be successful--they get penalized for being "abrasive"
- When bias plays out over a whole organization, the impact on female leadership is profound--negatively.
  - - In addition to gendar bias, there are now real performance issues to contend with.
- When women are forced to be ruinously empathetic or manipulatively insincere--because challenging directly is taken as obnoxious aggression--they become less effective.
- No one should have to choose between being likeable and being successful.

#### What can you do?

- Context matters, but the context of gender politics and gender bias is becoming untouchable--to everyone's detriment

**Men: don't "pull punches" with women**

- It can be helpful to become aware of how the woman feels about your guidance; ask her.
- Get feedback on your feedback.
  - Ask her to gauge your praise and criticism.

**Women: demand criticism**

**Men and women: things to think about when you feel a woman is being "too aggressive"

- Both genders are equally guilty of falling into the competence/likeability trap
- Consider:
  - **Switch genders** - If the woman ewre a man who did the exact thing, would your criticism change? And vice-versa.
  - **Be more specific** - Instead of feedback like, "you're too aggressive", point out specific examples.
  - **Don't use gendered language** - "abrasive", "shrill", "screechy", "bossy", etc.
  - **Never just say, "Be more likeable"** - Help your team recognize and eliminate gender bias--to create a more just working environment where unfair bias doesn't hurt anyone's career.

#### Things to think about if you're a woman who's being told, "You're abrasive"

**Never stop challenging directly**

**Care personally-but kill the angel in the office**
- Self-abnegation is never an effective way to show you care.

**The competence/likeability research has not concluded that you weren't out of line**
- Remember: it is possible that you have been obnoxious.
- Don't be the angel in the office, but remain open to the possibility that you may have hurt somebody unnecessarily.

**Just because it's wrong to kiss up and kick down doesn't mean it's right to do the opposite**

**Don't write men off**
- No matter how caring, intelligent, or supportive someone may be, they could still easily stumble into the competence/likeability trap.
- Don't commit the fundamental attribution error
  - Don't write them off as hopeless, a misogynist, a sexist pig, or some other epithet.
  - It won't solve the problem.
- Do continue challenging directly and showing you care personally.

### Formal Performance Reviews

- Sometimes, a formal performance review clarifies in a way that impromptu feedback does not.
- If handled correctly, the offer an imporant opportunity to improve your guidance.

**No surprises**
- If you're diligent about regular impromptu guidance, you'll lower the odds of this happening.

**Don't rely on your unilateral judgement**
- Have peers review each other (check-, check, check+)
  - If check- or check+, ask more questions.
  - Use this is a sanity check
    - Ensures you're being fair and seeing a broader perspective

**Solicit feedback on yourself first**
- Asking for a review before giving one may help you understand what your reports are thinking before going into their review.

**Write it down**

**Make a conscious decision about when to give the written review**

**Schedule at least fifty minutes in person, and don't do reviews back-to-back**

**Spend half the time looking back (diagnosis), half the time looking forward (plan)**
- Spend half the time discussing the past, half discussing the future.
- Ask the employee to come up with the future plan.
  - How would they turn success into more success?
  - How would they address an area of poor performance?

**Schedule regular check-ins to assess how the plan is working**

**Deliver the rating/compensation news after the performance review**

### Prevent Backstabbing
- Insist that people talk to each other, without you.
- It might feel like you're being empathetic to listen, but you're actually just stirring the political pot.
- If they can't work it out, offer to have a three-way conversation.
  - Must be a live conversation
- Your job is to be supportive, not punitive.
- Open, fair, and fast conflict resolution is one of the services you owe your direct reports.

### Peer Guidance

- Good guidance should happen in a conversation, in person.
- Encourage your team to take time to talk to one another.

**"Whoops the Monkey"**
- Find ways to encourage sharing of success and failures.
- The more we can learn from one another's mistakes, the less often we may make it agian.

**Peer gauging**
- Having a shared vocabulary will help your culture move forward.

### Speaking Truth to "Power"
- Make sure everyone is on equal footing at a human level, even in the presence of a hierarchy.
- Gather feedback about your direct reports from their direct reports--a "skip meeting"
- Tips to be effective:

**Explain it. Show it. Explain it again.**
- Explain to your direct reports that you have two goals:
  - To help each of them become better bosses
  - To make sure people on their team feel comfortable giving them feedback directly.
- Show people you're serious by having your boss do a skip meeting on you
  - Never do it without consent of your direct report though.
    - Also have them explain what this is to their direct reports
  - Never have skip level meetings for some people but not for others.

**Ensure the meeting is "not for attribution"**

**Take notes and project them**
- Project the notes you take and let people know you'll share them with the manager.
- Take notes yourself, don't delegate to others to do it
  - This shows you're actively listening

**Kick-start the conversation**
- Start with "what is your manager doing well?"
- "What could your manager be doing better"
- "What really sucks?"

**Prioritize issues**
- Remind people that often far more issues will get raised than will get fixed.
- Goal is to make things better

**Share notes right after the meeting**
- Give people some time (8-10 minutes) to look over the notes
- Let them know you'll be sharing the document with their boss after the meeting.

**Ensure that your directs make and communicate changes**
- Work with them to come up with one or two specific things they can immediately change.
  - Make it tangible.
- Encourage your direct reports to send an email out to their teams explaining what they have learned and what they will do differently as a result.
  - cc you on the note
- Have a follow-up to the skip level meeting
  - If people feel no changes were made or that there isn't a difference, treat it very seriously.

**Have these meetings once a year for each of your direct reports**

#### Skip level meeting FAQs

**What if it becomes clear that an entire team has lost faith in their manager?**
- Dig into the problems
- Should the manager be managing people?
- This should be rare.

**What if people won't talk?**
- Break the ice.
  - "So everything is perfect?"
  - Ask, "If you could change one thing..." and go around the room.

**What if people won't shut up?**
- If one person is doing all the talking, read faces carefully.
  - Check for agreement or disagreement.
    - Ask these people for their input.

**How do you strike the right balance between being supportive of the boss you're hearing about and being open to the team's thoughts?**
- Careful not to judge or defend the manager whom you are soliciting feedback.
- Make it clear that your role is not to judge but to pass along feedback.
- If there is a really big problem, promise that you'll look into it.
- Do not defend or malign the boss, but that doesn't mean you can't sympathize with the way people feel.
