# 7. Team
----

- Ideally, you want some people pushing change and some who offer stability.

### Career Conversations

- Understand people's motivations and ambitions to help them take a step in the direction of their dreams.
- It's important to have career conversations to learn what their aspirations are and plan how to help them achieve it.
- These conversations should be the very first thing you do when rolling out Radical Candor on your team.
- They will generate some of the most enjoyable conversations you have as a boss.
- People know what they want; your job is to help them articulate and achieve it.
- Takes notes; write down their motivators.
- Ask people about their past before moving on to their future.

**Conversation one: life story**
- First conversation is designed to learn what motivates each person.
- Suggested simple opening: "Starting with kindergarten, tell me about your life."
  - Focus on changes that people had made and to understand why they'd made those choices.
  - Values often get revealed in moments of change.
- You're not looking for definitive answers; you're just trying to get to know people a little better and understand what they care about.
- Most people are happy to have this conversations, as long as it happens in an environment of trust and respect.
- Sometimes you may touch on something too personal.
  - Respect a person's signals of discomfort.
- The reason to pull these motivations out of a life story rather than to discuss them abstractly is that it's so easy to misunderstand abstractions.
- You'll be better equipped to identify what kind of opportunities would be helpful for each person.

**Conversation two: dreams**
- What someone wants to achieve at the apex of their career.
- Words like "long-term goals", "career aspirations", "five-year plans" tends to elicit a certain type of answer, a "professional" and not entirely human answer.
- Questions about "career" tend to focus on promotions
  - People who want a promotion never feel they're getting one fast enough
  - People who don't want one feel lame for being insufficiently ambitious
- Retention is a byproduct--satisfying, meaninigful work and productive relationships with you are the primary goals of the "dreams" conversation.
- Encourage people to come up with three to five different dreams.
  - This allows employees to include the dream they think you want to hear as well as those that are far closer to their hearts.
- Ask employee to record their dreams and skills to attain them
  - In a table, each dream is a column
  - Each row is an important skills needed to reach those dreams.
  - Show how important each skill is to each dream.
  - Show what their level of competency is in that skill.
- Your job as boss is to help them think about how they can acquire those skills.
  - What are the projects you can put them on?
  - Whom can you introduce them to?
  - What are the options for education?
- Part of the conversation is ensuring the person's dreams are aligned with the values they have expressed.

**Conversation three: eighteen-month plan**
- Translation of current work to future dreams is far more inspiring for people than "Here's how you climb the next rung on the ladder"
- What to do:
  - Make a list of 
    - How the person's role can change to help them learn the skills needed to achieve eac hdream
    - Whom they can learn from
    - Classes they could take
    - Books they could read.
  - Next to each item, note who does what by when--make sure you have some action items.
> If one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with success unexpected in common hours. He will put some things behind, will pass an invisible boundary ... If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; that is where they should be. Now put the foundations under them. - Thoreau
- Part of your job as the boss is to help people find the courage to [move confidently in the direction of one's dreams].

### Growth Management

- Figure out who needs what types of opportunities, and how you're going to provide them.
- Once a year, you need to put together a growth-management plan for each person on your team.
- Make sure you understand how each individual's aspirations and growth trajectory is lining up with the collective needs of the team.

#### Put names in boxes (temporarily)

- First step is to identify your rock stars and superstars.
- Next identify the people who are doing good, but not exceptional, work.
  - This will probably be the majority of people.
- Then, identify the people who are underperforming but whom you believe should do much better.
- Finally, identify the people who are not doing good work and not getting any better.
- Don't spend too much time on this--think fast.
- Then, get an outside perspective--someone who is familiar with your team--to review your categorizations.
  - If they disagree on anyone, make sure you understand why.

#### Write growth plans

- Three to five bullet-point growth plans.
- Make sure you have projects or opportunities that will stretch the superstars.
- Make sure you're giving the rock stars what they need to be productive.
- How you handle firing people can impact how your team perceives you and the company.

**Don't be an "easy grader" or a "hard grader"**

- It's important to have a shared understanding of what exceptional work is, what good work is, and what bad work is.
- Consistency amongst managers is important.

**Ensure fairness by level**

### Hiring Your Mentality and Your Process

#### Process

- All hiring is flawed and subjective, and these drawbacks cannot be fixed; they can only be managed.

**Job description: define team "fit" as rigorously as you define "skills" to minimize bias**
- The hiring person should write the job description, basing it on the role, the skills required for the role, and the team "fit" criteria.
- Try to describe your culture in three to four words.
- If you take the time to define the growth trajectory required for the role, it can help the interviewers avoid one kind of hiring bias: hiring people who share your ambitions, which may not be desirable for the role.

**Blind skills assessments can also minimize bias**
- Important to be very selective about who gets invited to interview.
- A good presecreen is a skills assessment.
- Whenever possible, give candidates the opportunity to show the kind of work they can do without looking at who the person is.

**Use the same interview committee for multiple candidates, to allow for meaningful comparisons**
- If you can avoid it, don't make unilateral hiring decisions.
- Four people is about the right size for an interview committee.
- Helps if at least one of the interviewers is on another team.
  - Prevents "desperation hiring"

**Casual interviews reveal more about team fit than formal ones**
- In unguarded moments, candidates will do or say revealing things.

**Make interviews productive by jotting down your thoughts right away**
- Write down your interview feedback.
- Write down your thoughts on each of the skills and team fit criteria identified.
- Tip:
  - Schedule for an hour
  - Interview for forty-five minutes
  - Write for fifteen

**In-person debrief/decision: if you're not dying to hire the person, don't make an offer**
- If you are dying to hire somebody, allow yourself to be overruled by the other interviewers who feel strongly the person should not be hired.
- In general, a bias toward no is useful when hiring.
- Make all feedback visible to all interviewers after they've all been submitted.
  - This helps the committee is on the same page.
- Push to make a decision fast.

### Firing
- A necessary evil
- At companies where it's too easy to fire people
  - Bad/unfair firing decisions get made.
  - When people feel that kind of fear, they start to avoid taking risks.
    - The learn, grow, and innovate less.
- At companies where it's too hard to fire people
  - Some bosses address performance issues by foisting failing team members on unsuspecting colleagues.

#### Don't wait too long
- Four reasons to push yourself to identify underperformance early
  - To be fair to the person who's failing.
    - Give the person  time to address it.
  - To be fair to your company.
    - Reduces the risk of getting sued or the chance that you'll have to keep them on payroll for months of painful legal documentation.
  - To be fair to yourself.
    - Can undermine your trust with everyone.
  - To be fair to the people who are performing really well.
    - Tolerating bad work is unfair to the people who are doing excellent work.

#### Don't make the decision unilaterally
- Take the time to get advice from your boss, calibrate with your peers, and to get help with HR.
- You don't want to fire a person out of anger, and you don't want to fail to fire a person out of denial.

#### Give a damn
- You have a relationship with the person you're about to fire.
- Think about how to do it in a way that will make it easier on them--even if it makes it harder on you, or if you have to take some risks.
- When you have to fire people, do it with humility.

#### Follow up
- Try to keep an ear to the ground about jobs that people you've fired might be well-suited for.
- If they don't answer, don't push it.
- It's hard to fire people, but it's hard to quit too.
- Sometimes it's your job to be Radically Candid when something's just not working.

### Promotions
- Be fair
- Don't play favorites.
- Coordinate with other managers when deciding whom to promote.

**Prepare**
- Ask everyone on your team to send in a list of people they are planning to promote with a justification.
- Review and prepare to speak against each promotion candidate
- Be open minded

**Manage the time carefully, and don't let arguments go on too long**
- Review each promotion by level, most senior to least.
- When arguments go on too long, make the call yourself on the spot or ask people to continue the debate offline.
  - Have them come to you with a recommendation or a stalemate for you to resolve.

**Get enough sleep the day before, exercise that morning, and eat a good breakfast**
- Going to need to be calm.
- Encourage your whole team to do the same.

**When it's all done, acknowledge how hard these conversations are**
- Plan a clear-the-air activity.
- If there is time to go for a drink together, this is the time to do it.

### Reward Your Rock Stars
- Don't give all the glory to the superstars

#### Avoid promotion/status obsession
- Announcing promotions breeds unhealthy competition for the wrong things: documentation of status rather than development of skill.
- When there are big public celebrations of promotions, the costs in terms of the organization's focus on hierarchy often outweight the benefits of publicly recognizing those being promoted.
- If a promotion includes a change of role, then announce it.
- Not every change of role signifies a promotion, and not every promotion signifies a change of role.

#### Say "thank-you"
- Praise expresses admiration for great work.
- A thank-you expresses personal gratitude.
- Thank yous allow you to explain not just why the work matters, but why it matters to you.

#### Gurus
- Another way to highlight how great people are at a job is to acknowledge them as gurus in their area of expertise.
- You could push them to develop a "class" to teach others what they know.
- Be wary, some people may not like to teach.

#### Public presentation
- A simple way to give people on your team who focus on tasks that are important but under-recognized an opportunity to be recognizes.

### Avoid Absentee Management and Micromanagement
- One of the best ways to keep the people on your team engaged is by partnering actively with them.

| Absentee Management                                       | Partnership                                                   | Micromanagement                                                                          |
| --------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Hands-off, ears off, mouth off                            | Hands-on, ears on, mouth off                                  | Hands-on, ears off, mouth on                                                             |
| Lacks curiosity, Doesn't want to know                     | Displays curiosity. Recognizes when they need to know more    | Lacks curiosity. Pretends to know all                                                    |
| Doesn't listen. Says nothing                              | Listens. Asks why                                             | Doesn't listen. Tells how                                                                |
| Is afraid of any details                                  | Asks about relevant details                                   | Gets lost in the details                                                                 |
| Has no idea what's going on                               | Is informed because hands-on                                  | Asks for make-work presentations, reports, and updates                                   |
| Sets no goals                                             | Leads collaborative goal-setting                              | Sets goals arbitrarily                                                                   |
| Remains unaware of problems                               | Listens to problems. Predicts problems. Brainstorms solutions | Tells people how to solve problems without fully understanding them                      |
| Causes collateral damage by tripping on grenades unawares | Removes obstacles and defuses explosive situations            | Tells people how to remove obstacles\defuse situations, but watches from a safe distance |
| Is ignorant of both the questions and answers             | Shares what they know; asks questions when they don't         | Pretends to know when they don't                                                         |
| Is unaware of context                                     | Shares relevant context                                       | Hoards information                                                                       |

### Summary
- Great to be part of a team where everyone loves their jobs and loves working together.
- You can build that if
  - You have career conversations with each person on your team
  - Create growth-management plans for each person on your team, once a year
  - Hire the right people
  - Fire the appropriate people
  - Promote the right people
  - Reward people who are doing great but who shouldn't be promoted
  - Offer yourself as a partner to your direct reports
