# 8. Results
----

- Goal of Radical Candor is to achieve results collaboratively that you could never achieve individually.
- People who work together become "mental prostheses" for each other.
- Your role is to encourage the GSD process from Chapter 4 of
  - Listening
  - Clarifying
  - Debating
  - Deciding
  - Persuading
  - Executing
> Don't start by bossing people. They'll just hate you. Start by listening to them.
- One of your most important responsibilities is to decide who needs to communicate with whom and how frequently.
  - This means meetings.
  - Important to minimize duration, frequency, and mumber of people required to attend.
    - 1:1 Conversations
    - Staff Meetings
    - Think Time
    - "Big Debate" Meetings
    - "Big Decision" Meetings
    - All-Hands Meetings
    - Meeting-Free Zones
    - Kanban Boards
    - Walk Around
    - Be Concious of Culture

### 1:1 Conversations
- Employees set the agenda, you listen and help them clarify.
- Your single best opportunity to really listen to the people on your team.
- Purpose is to listen and clarify--understand what direction each person working for you wants to head in, and what is blocking them.

#### Mind-set
- Don't treat 1:1s as meetings; treat them as if you were having lunch or coffee with somebody

#### Frequency
- Time doesn't scale, but it's also vital to relationships
- 1:1s should be a natural bottleneck that determines how many direct reports a boss can have.

#### Show Up!
- No matter what fires erupt in your day, do not cancel your 1:1s.

#### Your direct report's agenda, not yours
- When your direct reports set the agenda for their 1:1s, they are more productive because they allow you to listen to what matters to them.
- You, however, set basic expectations for the agenda and how it's delivered.
- Your job is to hold people accountable when they come unprepared--or to decide that it's fine to have an agenda-less 1:1 from time to time.

#### Some good follow-up questions
- Why?
- How can I help?
- What can I do or stop doing that would make this easier?
- What wakes you up at night?
- What are you working on that you don't want to work on?
  - Do you not want to work on it because you aren't interested or because you think it's not important?
  - What can you do to stop working on it?
- What are you not working on that you do want to work on?
  - Why are you not working on it?
  - What can you do to start working on it?
- How do you feel about the priorities of the teams you're dependent on?
  - What are they working on that seems unimportant or even counter-productive?
  - What are they not doing that you wish they would do?
  - Have you talked to those other teams directly about your concerns? If not, why not?
    - Important note: the goal here is to encourage the people to raise the issue directly with each other, not to solve the problem for them.

#### Encourage new ideas in the 1:1
- 1:1 should be a safe place for people to nurture new ideas before they are submitted to the debate.
- Some questions that you can use to nurture new ideas by pushing people to be clearer:
  - What do you need to develop that idea further so that it's ready to discuss with the broader team? How can I help?
  - I think you're on to something, but it's still not clear to me. Can you try explaining it again?
  - Let's wrestle some more with it, OK?
  - I understand what you mean, but I don't think others will. How can you explain it so it will be easier for them to understand?
  - I don't think 'so-and-so' will understand this. Can you explain it again to make it clearer specifically for them?
  - Is the problem really that they are too stupid to understand, or is it that you are not explaining it clearly enough?

#### Signs you'll get from 1:1s that you're failing as a boss
- **Cancellations**. If people who report to you cancel 1:1s too often, it's a sign your partnership is not fruitful for them.
- **Updates**. If people just give you updates that could simply be emailed, encourage them to use the time more constructively.
- **Good news only**. If you only hear good news, it's a sign that people don't feel comfortable coming to you with their problems, or they think you won't or can't help. Ask explicitly for the bad news. Do not let the issue drop until you hear some.
- **No criticism**.
- **No agenda**.If they consistently come with no topics, they may be overwhelmed, they don't understand the purpose of the meeting, or they don't consider it useful.

### Staff Meetings
- Review metrics, study hall updates, and identify (but do not make) key decisions.
- An effective staff meeting has three goals:
  - It reviews how things have gone the previous week.
  - Allows people to share important updates.
  - Forces the team to clarify the most important decisions and debates for the coming week.
- Should not be a place to have debates or make decisions.
- Your job is to establish a consistent agenda and insist that people stick to it.
- Agenda that seems to be effective:
  - Learn: review key metrics (twenty minutes)
  - Listen: put updates in a shared document (fifteen minutes)
  - Clarify: identify key decisions & debates (thirty minutes)

**Learn: review key metrics**
- What went well that week, and why? What went badly, and why?
- What are the most important activities and results you see each week that let you know if you are on track to achieving your goals?

**Listen: put updates in a shared document during "study hall"**
- One of the most challenging aspects of managing is how to keep everyone abreast of what everyone else is doing so that they can flag areas of concern or overlap without wasting a great deal of time.

**Clarify: identify key decisions/debates**
- What are one or two most important decisions and the single most important debate your team needs to take on that week?
- Put these topics on the agendas of separate "big decision" and "big debate" meetings and identify owners for each.
- These separate meetings are a way for you to delegate debates and decisions.
- The agendas for the two meetings should be communicated to the broader team.
- Anyone who wants to attend them is free to.
- Most people hate to be excluded from decisions relevant to them, but hate attending meetings that are irrelevant to them.

### Think Time
- Block time to think, and hold that time sacred.
- Encourage everyone on your team to do the same.

### "Big Debate" Meetings
- Lower the tension by making it clear that you are debating, not deciding
- These meetings serve three purposes:
  - They lower tension.
    - The would-be deciders are furious that the debaters don't seem to be driving toward an answer.
    - The would-be debaters are furious that the deciders are refusing to think things through carefully enough.
    - When everybody knows that the meeting will end with no decision, this source of tension is eliminated.
  - They allow you to slow down key decisions when appropriate.
  - They foster a larger culture of debate.
    - Can help build the muscle and tolerance for discussion and dissension.
    - Should occur constantly on a well-functioning team.
    - Prevents explosive fights by lowering tension.
    - The principle of "self-organizing criticality"--a lot of little corrections create stability but one huge correction creates catastrophe--applies to human relationships as much as it does to markets.
- Only people required for this meeting are people you identified in the staff meeting.
- Someone must take notes and send them out to all the relevant parties.
- Check egos at the door.
- Sole product of the debate should be a careful summary of the facts and issues that energed, a clearer definition of the choices going forward, and a recommmendation to keep debating or to move on to a decision.

### "Big Decision" Meetings
- Push decisions into the facts, pull facts into the decisions, and keep egos at bay.
- Serves two important roles:
  - To make important decisions.
  - Figuring out when a decision really needs to be made.
- Only people required for this meeting are people you identified in the staff meeting.
- Someone must take notes and send them out to all the relevant parties.
- Check egos at the door.
- Sole product of the meeting is a careful summary of the meeting distributed to all relevant parties.
- Imporant that decisions are final, otherwise they'll always be appealed and will really be debates, not decisions.
- If you have strong opinions on the topic, let the decider know that you have veto power.
  - If you have veto power, the decider should send the decision only after approval/disapproval.
  - Use this sparingly, otherwise the meetings will become meaningless.

### All-Hands Meetings
- Bring others along
- Can really help to get broad buy-in on the decisions being made--and also to learn about dissent
- Usually includes two parts:
  - PResentations to persuade people that the company is making good decisions and headed in the right direciton
  - Q&As conducted so leaders can hear dissent and address it head-on.
- Presentations typically focus on one or two initiatives that are especially exciting and important.
  - Meant to inform everyone of broader priorities and to get their buy-in
  - Generally done by the team working on the initiative.
- Q&A is usually handled by the CEO/founders and allows them to learn what people really think.
  - The way these questions get answered is enormously important to persading a lot of people at once.

### Execution Time
- Fight meeting proliferation
- Being ruthless about making sure your team has time to execute is one of the most important things you can do as a boss.
- It may be necessary to block off time in your calendar to be alone and execute.

### Kanban Boards
- Make activity and workflows visible.
- Making progress visible to everyone gives more autonomy to the team.
- Measuring activities and visualizing workflows will push you and your team to make sure you really understand how what you all do drives success or doesn't.
- It's always suprising how quick one team is to assume that another team sits around doing nothing and how much resentment builds up over this.

### Walk Around
- Learn about small problems to prevent big ones.
- Notice the things you don't notice when you're buried in work at your desk or going meeting to meeting.
- Awareness of small problems can be useful:
  - Helps you find the devil in the details.
  - Fixing the problems yourself is the best way to kill the "it's not my problem" or the "that's beneath me" mentality.
  - When you share that you care about the small things, that contributes to customer happiness or the quality of life on your team.

### Be Conscious of Culture
- Everyone is watching you, but that doesn't mean it's all about you.
- Who you are as a human being impacts your team's culture enormously.
- Focus on behavior rather than on character.

#### People are listening. Like it or not, you're under the microscope
- They attribute meaning--sometimes accurately, sometimes not--to what you say, to the clothes you wear, to the car you drive.
- Everything you say or do can and will be used against you.

#### Clarify. Be vigilant about clarifying what you are communicating
- It's important to clarify what you're saying--even when you think you're not saying anything.

#### Debate and decide explicitly. Don't let things that pervert your culture "just happen"
- If nobody makes a decision, you wind up in Lord of the Flies territory.

#### Persuade. Pay attention to the small things.

#### Execute: Action should reflect your culture.

#### Learn
- When you're the boss and shit happens, it's your responsibility to learn from it and make a change.
  - If you don't, you create a culture that doesn't learn from its mistakes.

#### Listen...
- The most amazing thing about a culture is that once it's strong, it's self-replicating.
- You'll know . you've succeeded when it truly is no longer about you.