# 2. Managers Are Not Evil
----
- The basic what-do-you-do disconnect between employees and managers is at the heart of why folks don't trust their managers or even find them to be evil.

### There Is Evil
- Don't be mean and evil
  - Don't put yourself before your team.
  - Don't lie.
  - Recognize when you don't have the ability to lead.

### Your Manager's Job
- Your manager's job is not your job.

### Where Does Your Manager Come From?
- Different types of managers
  - One who doesn't care what you're doing
    - Some find this okay--no fuss or awkward hall conversations
    - The risk is, no one knows your value.
  - One who was never an engineer
    - Think of head of marketing being put in charge of engineering.
    - They know all the buzz words and can talk their way out of a situation.
    - This person isn't necessarily bad--they've got moxie.
    - They have solid information-detection skills that can be useful.
    - They know how to talk to senior management.
    - They don't know how to talk to you, the engineer, though.
    - If this is your manager, it is your job to figure out how to speak their language.
- Your manager is your face to the rest of the organization.

### How is He Compensating for His Blind Spots
- Every manager, good or bad, is going to have a glaring deficiency.
  - Does he/she recognize their blind spot?
- In every interview, you should ask "Where do you need help?"
- A manager's job is to take what skills they have and figure out how to make them scale.
  - Building a team that accentuates their strengths
  - Building a team that reinforces where they are weak.
- E.g. Dry technologists need team members who are phenomenal communicators; Vision guys with zero tech chops need strong technologists to tell them what is technically possible.
- A manager's job is to transform his glaring deficiency into a strength by finding the best person to fill it and trusting them to do the job.

### Does Your Manager Speak The Language?
- Do you speak to your coworker the same way you speak to your manager? Probably not.
- When your manager is speaking, especially across the organization, they're probably speaking differently than with you personally.
- Part of a manager's job is to speak across different teams and groups as efficiently as possible--they're speaking managementese.

### How Does Your Manager Talk to You?
- Schedule 1:1s with direct reports
  - Keep them on the same day and time, and never cancel them.
- You always learn something in your one-on-one
- A good manager has his finger on the pulse of the organization.
- Your manager should always be in information acquisition mode.

### How Much Action per Decision?
- Act of delegation is a slippery slope for managers.
- Yes, you want to figure out how not to be a bottleneck.
- Yes, you want to figure out how to scale.
- You still have to be willing to do some of the work.
- Real work is visible action managers take to support their particular vision for their organization.

### Where Is Your Manager In The Political Food Chain?
- Just like delegation, the act of navigating politics in an organization is slippery.
- Politically active managers are informed managers.
- They know when change is afoot and know what action tot ake to best represent their organization in that change.
- The organization's view of your manager is their view of you.

### What Happens When They Lose Their Shit?
- Your manager is not a manager until they have participated in a layoff.
- How they react during a layoff panic shows you who they really are.

### The Big Finish
- A successful organization is built of layers of people glued together with managers.
- Managers translate between layers, in both directions.
- Successfully navigating these layers means answering:
  - Where did I come from?
    - Being able to relate to those whom you manage comes from understanding their job.
  - Where am I going?
    - A plan for your manager's next big move is his incentive.
