# 6. The Twinge
----
- Listen all the time and use your experience to detect disasters before they occur.

### Twinge Acquisition
- As a manager, you manage both yourself and your team.
- Rookie managers believe their job is to be aware of and responsible for their team's every single thought and act.
  - This is impossible.
- You need to trust and you need to delegate.
- You must understand the art of evaluating a Spartan set of data, extracting the truth, and trusting your Twinges.

### Twinges: Built on Experience
- Engineers: a class of human being that derives professional joy from building things--specific things.
- Engineers who become managers believe the essential skills of building that made them successful as engineers will apply to the building of people, but they don't.
- Management is a total career restart.
- The approaches they used for building products aren't going to work when it comes to people.
- Not all that experience is suddenly irrelevant.
  - It's this experience that creates the Twinge.

### A Manager's Day: Full of Stories
- As a manager, think of your day as one full of stories.
- One question you always need to be asking: do you believe this story?
- Be okay with incomplete stories.
  - Trust that those who work with you are capable of synthesizing a story.
  - Part of their value is their judgement in presenting you with the essential facts, and until they prove they can't synthesize well, you assume they can.
- For any story you're hearing, you're getting the version that supports their chosen version of reality.
  - Their agenda dictates what they are choosign to tell you.
  - This is not necessary malovelence.

### A Familiar Nail
- It's your job to sniff around, no matter if a story is setting off alarms or not.
- Sniffing around pisses people off.
  - Often interpreted as micromanagement--a passive-aggressive way of stating, "I don't believe you can do your job."
- This is where the Twinge comes into play.
  - You've run into similar situations in the past.
  - When you say things are "almost done," are they really? What hasn't been accounted for? Edge cases, defects, etc.

### A Twinge Catastrophe
- A Twinge is your experience speaking to you in an unexpected and possibly unstructured way.
- Storytelling--the careful selection of facts, ideas, and data--is going on everywhere in the company.
  - Everyone is building a story and they're often optimizing them in their favor.
- Your failure to heed your Twinge is a management failure.
  - e.g. Bob's small performance issue on one server can be a massive debacle in the making.
  - e.g. Joe's story about the annoying interaction design is actually the description of the absence of a feature you don't even know you're missing.
  - Letting seemingly benign stories go unjudged, unquestioned, clears your conscience and the storyteller's conscience but doesn't help the impending problem.

### Just Another Nail
- New engineering managers wrestle with the gig because they miss building stuff.
- One of your jobs is to listen to the stories and map them against your experience.
  - You need to believe the asking of questions is a form of building.
- If a story can't stand up to the first three questions that pop into your mind, then there's an issue.
- The ability to listen to random stories and quickly tease out a flaw in the logic or absence of a critical dependency is just one of the skills you need to develop as a manager.
- Like building, both the discovery and the asking of these questions are arts; they're just more nails you need to figure out how to hammer.