# 7. The Update, the Vent, and the Disaster
----
- The rules for a good 1:1 and the types of 1:1s that show up on your doorstep
- Your job in a 1:1 is to give the smallest voice a chance to be heard.
  - And it can start with a simple question, "How are you?"

### The Basics
- Basic rules
  - Hold a 1:1 the same time each week.
    - Serves as a weekly reminder that you are here for them--no matter how busy you are.
  - Always do it.
    - Each time you bail on a 1:1, the message you send is, "You don't matter"
  - Give it 30 minutes, at least.
    - People don't work for you. You work for them.
- Having a meaningful conversation with anyone takes time.

### How Are You?
- This content-free question is vague enough that the recipient can't help but put part of themselves into the answer, and it's the answer where the 1:1 begins.
- The answer is merely a deliver vehicle for the mood, and the mood sets your agenda.
- Three types of 1:1s you can have:
  - The Update
  - The Vent
  - The Disaster
- By far, the worst answer to the opener is  the quiet one.

### The Update
- It's a status.
- Most people consider this type of 1:1 to be a success, and they're wrong.
- A 1:1 is not a status report.
- If you're drawing the line for success in your 1:1 as the discussion of data you could find in a status report, you're missing the point.
- A 1:1 is an opportunity to learn something new amidst the grind of daily business.
- When a 1:1 starts and it's clearly an Update, start listening twice as hard for a nugget of something that can be discussed, investigated, and explored.
- If you don't find it, three options
  - Three prepared points
    - Have three talking points prepared over the past week regarding you or your team.
    - Use this if you can't find a good thread of conversation in the first 10-15 minutes.
  - The mini-performance review
    - Follow up on goals set from a previous 1:1 or a previous annual performance review.
  - My current disaster
    - Discuss something that's bothering you.
    - The point is that we're going to have a conversation where one of us is going to learn something more than just project status.
- The process of doing stuff is called tactics.
  - While tactics are progress, the real progress is made when we get strategic.
  - A productive 1:1 is one where we talk strategically about how we do stuff, but more importantly, how we might do this stuff better.

### The Vent
- A good Vent starts with a disarmingly long period of silence.
- Vents vary from semi-tense to full-on explosion.
- When the Vent begins, you might confuse this for a conversation.  It's not.
  - It's a mental release valve.
  - Your job is to listen for as long as it takes.
  - Don't problem solve. Don't redirect. Don't comfort. Yet.
- Your employee is doing mental house cleaning, and interrupting this cleaning is missing the point.
  - They don't want a solution; they want to be heard.
- There is a point where you need to jump in.
- These conclusions and your actions vary:
  - It's done.
    - Vent begins to lose steam. Venter has nothing else to say.
    - This is where you begin your triage. This is when the conversation starts.
  - It's a rant.
    - A Vent can repeat itself.
    - This repetition is a healthy way of chewing on the problem.
    - You could try grabbing hold of the conversation but beware--the venter might not be done.
    - In the face of resistance, give them the benefit of the doubt and let'em go another round.
  - The Vent that wants no help is a rant.
    - The ranter believes that the endless restatement of their opinion is the solution.
    - They are finding some weird mental satisfaction in the endless restatement.
    - Once confirmed as a rant, it's OK to jump into the middle of the Vent.
      - Saving everyone a pile of time.
      - Teaching the ranter that incessant restatement is not progress.
  - It's a disaster.
    - It's not a rant and it's moving forward, but something is off.
    - The venter is out of character.
- At its core, the Vent is motivated by emotion.
- The topic of discussion triggered an emotional response.
- The venter's therapy is the verbal statement and restatement of the situation.
- Emotion is a slippery slope.
  - What starts as a Vent could turn into a Disaster.

### The Disaster
- If a Vent feels like a speech, a Disaster feels like an attack.
- Until you've seen the Disaster once, it's hard to predict how you're going to react to the perception of being attacked.
- When a Disaster arrives, the absolute worst response is any semblence of emotion.
- Tips on recognizing and handling the Disaster:
  - The person you're talking to isn't him or herself.
  - The person you're familiar with will show up...eventually.
- Shut up. Really.
  - Your primary job during the Disaster is to defuse.
  - You start by contributing absolutely nothing.
  - If you're a logical, reasonable management type, you'll be tempted to ask clarifying questions. Don't. Be quiet. Let the emotion pass.
- It's not about the issue anymore.
  - You're no longer experiencing the problem. You're experiencing the employee's emotional baggage regarding the problem.
- Success comes with traversing the emotional explosion.
- Once the emotion has passed, the aggrieved will be more willing to have a rational discussion.
  - The discussion won't be about the core issue.
  - It will start with the Disaster, with understanding the intense emotion surrounding the topic.
- A Disaster is the end result of poor management.
- When an employee believes totally losing their shit is a productive strategy, it's because they believe it's the only option left for making anything change.

### Assume They Have Something to Teach You
- 1:1s offer a weekly opportunity for you to see where dissatisfaction might quietly appear.
- It is your chance to perform weekly preventative maintenance while also understanding the health of your team.
- It is a place to listen for what your employee isn't saying.
- Your reward for a culture of healthy 1:1s is a distinct lack of drama.