# 8. The Monday Freakout
----

- Strategies for dealing with the unexpected
- As a rule, the earlier on Sunday that you think about Monday is an indication of how much you neglected to do no Friday.

### Don't Participate in the Freakout
- Best move is to simply listen and maintain eye contact.
- Even if the freakout is pointed directly at you, your job is the same: listen, nod, repeat.

### Give the Freak the Benefit of the Doubt
- There may be a lot of noise, but remember, the freakout has a point.
- Listen

### Hammer the Freak with Questions
- Ending an endless freakout and starting the conversation starts with a question.
- Properly timed and well-constructed questions lead your freak away from emotion and force them to think.

### Get the Freaks to Solve Their Own Problems
- One pleasant side effect of questions is that you discover the freak is often already close to a solution.
- They've been stewing on the problems longer than you and know it better than you.

### You Still Have a Problem
- Being emotionally invested in what you are doing is an absolute requirement for caring about your job.
- Freakouts are a normal event in passionate engineering teams.
- It's still a management failure.
- A freak freaking out is a good sign that they are not leaving because they clearly, loudly cares.
- The alternative is that they're not saying a thing and have decided to leave the company.
- Once you successfully defuse the situation, you know two things:
  - There is a problem that needs to be solved.
  - Someone believes the best way to get your attention is by freaking out.