# 10. Agenda Detection
----
- The first step in getting out of a meeting is understanding why it exists.
- Agenda detection is the ability to discern:
  - Typical meeting roles and how meeting participants assume them.
  - Explanation of what these distinct meeting roles want out of a meeting.
  - How to use this understanding to get the hell out of the meeting as quickly as possible.

### Meeting Bail Tip #1: Identify the Type of Meeting
- A meeting agenda would help.
- Odds are, you're either in an informational meeting or a conflict resolution meeting.
- Informational meetings are for passing on information.
  - Any meeting where there's a standing assumed agenda.
  - Two participants: talkers and listeners.
  - Roles and agendas are simple.
  - Some folks don't understand the purpose of these meetings
    - They are the ones who ask the same or random questions during an all-hands thinking they're going to change something.
    - This tends to waste time.
- Conflict resolution meetings are ones where there is a problem that needs to be solved.
  - Couldn't be resolved via e-mail, messaging, or hallway conversations so someone convened this face-to-face meeting.

### Meeting Bail Tip #2: Classify the Participants
- Two major types that you need to identify: players and pawns.
  - The distinction between the two is that players want something out of the meeting.
  - Pawns are silent or instruments of running the meeting.
    - They add very little to the meeting and can be removed from strategic consideration.

### Meeting Bail Tip #3: Identify the Players
- Bucketing of players and pawns can be simple with the attendee list and organizational knowledge.
  - Assume all engineers are players.
  - Product-management person is also a player.
  - Program managers are pawns.
- If you can't identify players in a meeting, get out.

### Meeting Bail Tip #4: Identify the Pros and Cons
- Figure out each player's position relative to the issue on the table.
- Two subclasses of players: pros and cons.
- Pros are players who are currently on the winning side of the issue.
  - They're getting what they want and have no incentive to negotiate.
  - Appear willing to listen.
- Cons are the ones being screwed.
  - Likely the ones who yelled loud enough to get the meeting set up.
  - Usually the ones expressing some degree of anger or frustration.
- Both need to be r epresented for any progress to occur.
- Common tactic of a good pro is to not acknowledge that they're the pro.

### Meeting Bail Tip #5: Figure Out the Issue
- Figure out what the whos want.
- Pawns don't want anything.
- Pros don't want anything, except ot leave the meeting.
- What do the cons want?
- If you haven't identified the people who actually care and can make a difference, you deserve every useless minute of that meeting.

### Meeting Bail Tip #6: Give the Cons What They Want
- The cons need a plan, some assurance that will somehow address whatever the issue is.
- Someone--anyone, needs to synthesize everything into constructive next steps and communicate that to the cons.
- Does not need to be a great plan, or even a complete one, just need to give the perception of forward progress.
- If the meeting ends due to time running out, you'll just end up in another meeting later in time to discuss the same thing.

### Meeting Bail Tip #7: Figure Out the Issue
- If it's 30 minutes in and you still can't figure out what the issue, it's time to go: too many issues.
- Someone who cares more than you needs to distill it down to a coherent statement so that the pros and cons can argue about one thing.

### Conclusion
- Meetings are always going to be inefficient because language is hard.
- Meetings give us the opportunity to include others.
- With agenda detection, you can figure out who the stakeholders are, what they want, get it for them, and get out.