# 11. Dissecting the Mandate
----
- Understanding when and how to insist on strategy
- The mandate is when you gather the team and calmly say, "This is the way it is."
- Most folks have learned to despise the mandate.
- There is a fine line with the mandate.
- Your job as a manager is to move the team forward without hurting morale.
- Three phases to the mandate:
  - Decide
  - Deliver
  - Deliver (again)

### Decide
- First step is to decide when to employ the mandate and understand the consequences.
- Rule of thumb: When the debate is no longer productive, it's time to make a decision.
- Allow teams to argue as long as possible.
  - The more brains and more time the team spends staring at an idea, the stronger the idea becomes.
  - Tends to result in decision-making in groups and thus slower.
    - Ideas are cross-polinating.
    - Can result in output being higher quality.
- Mandates are the friend of the silent majority.
  - Even if you annoy the concerned parties, the silent majority will appreciate the peace and quiet once a verdict is delivered.

### Deliver
- If you don't spend time considering both sides of the issue, then your credibility will become suspect.
- -Goal of Deliver phase is to explain to the team that a decision has been made.
- Junior managers fail here.
  - They do a good job explaining the decision but fail to convey that this is the decision and further debate is not necessary.
- A sign of poor mandate delivery is when delivery degrades into another debate.
- Team has got to leave the room knowing the decision has been made.
  - They don't have to like it.
  - They may hate it.
  - Ultimately, they know that the decision is final.

### Deliver (again)
- Each person coming out of the meeting has one of three distinct opinions:
  - Yay: You are a great motivator.
  - Boo: You are a tyrant.
  - Yawn: What took you so long?
- The Deliver (Again) phase is better called damage control.
- This phase is taking the time to individually express your reasoning to the concerned parties--both the winners and losers.
  - This reinforces what you mandated.
  - Gives people a chance to respond in a non-team setting.
- Insist on venting.

### Foreign Mandates
- Foreign mandates are ones that occurs way outside your sphere of influence.
- Regardless of your opinion, your job is to understand the justification behind the mandate.
- Someone in your management chain may not be conveying the necessary justification.
  - So either way, you're going to be delivering news to your team.
  - Better to get and understand the justification yourself.
