# 12. Information Starvation
----
- Each piece of information that arrives has a proper home or homes.
- You as the manager need to figure out how to prevent freakouts.
  - Probably has to do with a lack of information.

### Information Conduit
- One of your many jobs as manager is information conduit.
- For each piece of information you see, you must correctly determine who on your team needs that piece of information to do their job.
- In the absence of information, people will create their own.

### Nature Abhors a Vacuum
- The creation of information is the act of creating context and foundation when there is none.
  - Can be rumor, gossip, etc.
  - Call it what you want, but it is a reaction to a failure to communicate.
- When listening to gossip or rumor, listen for two things:
  - What is actually being said.
  - What informational gap in knowledge is being filled by this fabrication?
- Gossip, rumors, or whatever the creation is, it means that someone in your organization is asking for help.

### Starvation Prevention
- Biggest loss of essential information is when managers3 rely on their brains as to-do lists.
- Write things down.
- Keep a notebook with you at all times.
- What you think might be boring or irrelevant, folks on your team might still want to hear.
- Part of your job as a manager is to make judgement calls regarding what information gets passed on.
  - Rule of thumb: If you have to debate it intside your head, pass the information on.

### Aggressive Silence
- Your job is to constantly assess what your team needs.
- Your job is not just to be an information conduit; it's also to employ a policy of aggressive silence.
- Throw in an occasional long pause.
  - In this uncomfortable silence, if they're about to say something, they just do it.
