# 14. Managementese
----
- The language you use defines your leadership
- Be wary of "throwaway phrases" like
  - "Think outside the box..."
  - "Can you circle back with her..."
  - "I want to double-click on that and..."
  - "These are the action items..."

### Management Metaphors
> A software metaphor is more like a searchlight than a road map. It doesn't tell you where to find the answer; it tells you how to look for it.
- Managementese is a language that is learned, evolved, and spoken by managers.
- It's a convenient, high-bandwidth means of conveying information between managers.
- If your team doesn't speak it, they won't understand what you're talking about.
- Managementese is the cross-functional language of the company used to translate between the layers of a company.
- Managers are hubs of communnication.
  - The better they can communicate across teams and layers, the more people they can communicate with.
  - This leads to better decisionmaking.

### Language of the Lazy
- As a manager, your job is that of a bullshit umbrella.
- You need to decide what crap your team needs to deal with and what crap can be ignored.
- In the rush to acquire information from a verity of people, managementese helps you talk with your fellow managers to figure out what is going on.
- Managers need to remember that managementese puts you a few key metaphors away from sounding like a used-car salesman.

### The "Bottom Line"
- When you're talking to individuals, talk to them using the familiar language of a friend.
- Dispose of the management hat and have a conversation in a common language.
- It can be a major context switch for you, but your goal is to have a conversation.
  - For that to happen, both people need to trust and understand what is being said.
