# 15. You're Not Listening
----
- Look them straight in the eye and never look at the clock.
- The most basic rule of listening: If they don't trust you, they aren't going to say shit.
- Difference between listening and hearing.
- Listening: Sit there and let words into your head.
- Hearing: Pulling in all the words, sorting them in your head, and mapping them against the person who is speaking.
- Even if you're listening and hearing, that's only half of the battle.

### A Listening Structure
- A healthy conversation starts with the ability to listen.

#### Open with innocuous preamble
- In most discussions or 1:1s, you have an agenda.
- Don't lead conversation with your agenda; start with something small, like asking how a person is.
- This allows you and whomever you're speaking to to transition from wherever they were to here.

#### Look them straight in the eye and don't look at the clock
- This is where it gets hard.
- Focus.
- We are more mentally engaged when staring at each other's eyes.
- Eye contact is the easiest way to demonstrate your full attention, and also the easiest way to destroy it.
- A single glance at your clock can set the tone in how your talkee comes into discussions.

#### Be a curious fool
- Assume they have something to teach you.
- Early on, they'll assume that you'll be talking and not listening, while you're looking to achieve the exact opposite.
- Keep asking stupid questions based on whatever topics arrive until you find an answer where they light up.
- Being a curious fool means talking about things that appear to have no substantive value to the conversation or the business--that's ok.
  - Over time, you will further develop your mental profile of this person.
  - Over time, you will understand what they really care about.
  - Over time, you will have built trust with this person to have bigger conversations.

#### Validate ambiguity, map their words to yours, and build gentle segues.
- Your job is to maintain conversational flow in the face of awkward pauses, non-sensical statements, and unanswerable questions.
- Sometimes you'll need to further understanding of what was just said:
  - "What I hear you saying is ..."
- The goal is to make it clear to the other person that you're directing your full attention at understanding what they are saying.
- Part of your job is to discover how to move from one topic to the next.
- A conversation without clarification and segues is an exhausting circular exercise of not understanding each other.

#### Pause. Like, shut up.
- Sometimes there's something they're dying to say.
  - If you can't find the question, the segue, or words to pull it out of them, just shut up.
- Sit, maintain eye contact, and wait.
- It's in these silences that people tend to volunteer part of the story they are dying to tell.

### If They Don't Trust You, They Aren't Going to Say Shit
- Everything previously described can be faked.
- Listening is work.
- Everytime you listen, the goal is the same: continue to build trust with the people you depend upon and who, in turn, depend on you.
- Think of healthy listening as preventative relationship maintenance.