# 16. Fred Hates The Off-Site
----
- A meeting designed to help you set or reset strategy.
- An off-site is a meeting.

### Why I Get in Fred's Face
- An off-site exists because you, the leader, need certain essential work to occur that cannot easily occur now under normal conditions.
- You need a place where a team can bond, a strategy can be devised, or you can begin an epic journey.

### Who We Are, What We Need, and Our Epic Journey
- Reasons you may need an off-site...

#### We Need to Understand Who We Are
- During times of rapid growth, team members don't necessarily take the time to stop and get to know each other.
- An off-site gives the team members time away from their busy work to get t o know each other.
- The need for a team to understand itself is a cause worthy of an off-site by itself.

#### We Need a New Direction and/or Fewer Disasters
- Something significant is broken.
- The status quo represents a legitimate threat to the company.
- Purpose of the off-site is deep brainstorming.

#### We are Embarking on an Epic Journey
- Nothing's broken; it's just time to start something new.
- Also known as a kickoff meeting.
  - It's an alignment meeting.
- You are pointing folks in the correct direction (this is where we're headed) and defining the urgency (and this is why we're headed there)

### A Meeting with Certain Characteristics
- Certain characteristics that differentiate off-sites with a typical meeting

#### By Definition, you can't Invite Everyone
- Depending on the goal, you need to pick people who are both capable and willing to solve the hard problem in front of you.
- A meeting where everyone is invited is the all-hands, not the off-site.
  - The all-hands isn't used to tackle the issues above because when was the last time you saw 120+ people effeciently propose, debate, and make a decision?
- Off-site is used to select the best peopel to solve a problem.
- The selection process can be hard.

#### Everyone Presents, or at Least Speaks
- Each person at the off-site has a deliverable.
- If you can't think of something for this person to present, given the problem at hand, why are they invited?
- You'll see duplication; two people who are great at the same thing.
  - Do you really need both of them?
- Not a hard and fast rule.

#### It's Not in your Usual Building
- Off-sites don't need to be swank.
- They do need to be far from the tactical distractions of the office.
- One of your goals is to create grounds where people feel comfortable speaking heresy.

#### There's Someone Responsible for Flow as Well as Action
- Two roles that need to be designated: A Master of Ceremonies and a Taker of Notes; usually not the same person.
- Master of Ceremonies
  - Person responsible for not just moving the day along, but also knowing when to stop and pivot.
  - Person should know when an idea has been explored as best it can and it's time to move on.
- Taker of Notes
  - Tasked with only only capturing bright ideas, but the right ideas.
  - Must not only find the important ideas, but assigning them to the people who can and will drive them forward.
- Each time your company doubles in size, it needs to reinvent how to communicate.

#### No Personality Tests, No Trust Falls, and No Outsiders
- Avoid personality tests.
  - Yes, they allow you to place each other in well-defined buckets.
  - This also bypasses the actual act of understanding each other.
  - To understand someone, sit down with them and solve a hard problem together.
- Avoid trust falls.
  - The learning that needs to be done should be done in support of working on the problem, not a staged game or activity.
- Avoid outsiders.
  - An external facilitator gives a professional air, and will move things along at a comfortable pace.
  - But the facilitator won't give a shit whether you solve the problem or not.
  - They don't know the culture, the problem, the politics, or the personalities involved.
  - You need someone who has skin in the game.

#### They Need to Sleep on It
- Inflection point: the point where people start to believe.
  - They stop seeing beyond the week and begin to see the next year.
  - They start to see the beginnings of solutions to complex problems.
- An off-site must be at least two d ays long.
  - You need one evening where everyone can get away from the high-bandwidth conversations to process in the back of their heads.

#### What Fred Really Hates
- A successful off-site is one that maps the discoveries of the off-site to the reality of work.