# 18. An Engineering Mindset
----
- On the topic of whether you should still code.
- Management must-do list:
  - Stay flexible.
    - Constant change is the only constant.
  - Stop coding.
    - You must learn to trust those who work for you to take care of the job of coding.
    - Helps set the stage for management growth.
    - You need to figure out how to get the team to solve the problem.

### Wrong?
- Start programming again.
  - Your career depends on it.
- The evolution of how software development occurs might be moving faster than you are.

### Remove Yourself from the Code, But...
- Start assigning yourself tons of features in the next release.
- Stay in touch with how your team builds stuff.
- You still need to referee, you still need to massage decisions, and you still need to spend time with the engineer who thinks we're doomed.
- But you also need to maintain an engineering mindset and you do not need to be a full-time coder to do this.
- Advice for maintaining an engineering mindset:
  - Use the development environment to build the product.
    - Be familiar with your team's tools.
    - This task is going to keep you in touch with the language your team uses to communicate.
  - Be able to draw a detailed architectural diagram describing your product on any whiteboard at any time.
    - This is your map for understanding just about everything about your product.
    - It changes over time and you should be able to understand why those changes are occurring.
  - Own a feature.
    - Forces you to actively participate in the development process.
    - It switches your context from "manager responsible for everything" to "person who owns a thing."
    - Serves as a reminder about the importance of small decisions.
    - Make it a small feature.
      - If you can't own a feature, fix some bugs.
  - Write unit tests.
    - Think of this as your checklist for understanding what your product does.
    - Do it often.

### Don't Stop Developing
- Stay flexible, remember what it means to be an engineer, and don't stop developing.