# 19. Tear It Down
----
- There are three leadership roles.

### Bright People with a Dream
- Three basic roles for leaders that you must understand so that you can tear it down.
  - This is descriptive, not prescriptive.
- Entrepreneurial-types don't believe in hierarchies because the believe in the power of the individual.
- Entrepreneurial-types are just a handful of bright people with a dream.
- But in order to build epic shit at scale, a colorful tapestry of talent and degrees of experience is essential.

### Three Leaders
- Three archetypes
  - The Lead
  - The Lead of Leads
  - The Director

#### The Lead
- Day-to-day job is being hands-on with the work and becoming hands-on with their team.
- Their focus is the team.
- Intimately aware of how the work is done.
- This knowledge makes them valuable mentors and credible representatives of the team to the rest of the company.
- They can effectively describe the work to others, and they understand how to measure the work as this is their domain and the team is their people.
- Is tactical, but showing first glimmers of strategy.
- Understands the power of delegation.
- Still wrestling with the idea that they have authority.
- What is familiar to them is the work and the types of people doing the work.
- Acts authoritatively and quickly because they undetsand deeply.
- Beginning to understand that there are different domains with different rules and their role is interfacing with these foreign elements.

#### The Lead of Leads
- Responsible for multiple leads.
- Running the company.
- Usually responsible for multiple teams.
- No hands-on responsibility.
- Relies on their leads for day-to-day work.
- Focus is across the company.
- Worries about the health of their teams as well as the health of other teams on which they have dependencies.
- Discover and build a profile of the health of the portions of the company they can see and share it with their Leads, other Leads of Leads, and Directors.
- Their day is equal parts tactics and strategy.
- While distanced from day-to-day work, they still know how the work is done and can have an informed opinion about tactics relative to the work.
- Directors depend on Leads of Leads to make sure the work actually gets done.

#### An unfortunate aside on middle management
- This piece describes the idyllic leadership situation.
  - This siutation never occurs, ever.
- Leads of Leads are "middle management"
- The perception is that they can't lead, they're too busy managing.
  - May or may not be true.
  - They may have lost touch with the Directors (and now lack essential strategic data)
  - And/or they lost touch with their Leads (and now lack essential tactical data)
- A poor Lead of Leads has the ability to significantly damage the health of your company quietly and invisibly.
- Detecting this situation is the job of the Director.

#### The Director
- Primary focus is outward.
- Figure out how the company fits into and interacts with the rest of the world.
- Often the face of the company.
- Curator of the vision.
- Ideally, they are purely strategic.
- Leads with compelling strategy, not efficient tactics.
- Pure strategy doesn't look or feel anything like raw tactics.
- For a healthy team, there are qualified Leads of Leads capable of translating for the Director.

### Keep the Sub-Minions in Line
- Directors dictate strategy, mostly to the Leads of Leads.
- Leads of Leads don't own anything but the run the show; they tell the Leads and their minions what to do.
- Leads are glorified minions who are mostly qualified to keep the sub-minions in line.
- A good lead is a force multiplier.
- You may have applied these archetypes into a hierarchy.
  - There is no actual hierarchy in these roles.
  - Flat doeshn't mean everyone is equal in ability.
  - Everyone has differences in ability and experience equally.
- Leadership comes from everywhere.