# 20. Titles Are Toxic
----
- Titles place an unfortunate absolute professional value on individuals.

### On the Origin of Titles
- Small companies generally don't use titles because everyone does a little bit of everything.
- Titles started out as a means to give folks a path toward growth.

### The Leadership Path
- Two different tracks, lead or management track.
- Leadership shows up organically out of necessity.
  - When there are too many people for every single person to maintain state with everyone else.
  - Communication and decisions can be sensibly organized.
- A job is well-defined and has clear and easy-to-understand set of responsibilities.
    - A title often has neither.
- In toxic title world, titles are designed to document the value of an individual without proof.

### The People Path
- The forcing function for leadership was driven by a need to improve efficiency, communication, and accountability.
- The forcing function for the People Path is growth.
- A majority of your company is never going to be managers, but they want to grow too.

### Your Are a Beautiful Snowflake
- Main problem with systems of titles is that people are erratic, chaotic messes who learn at difference paces and in different ways.
- Comparing tow people is difficult.
  - They could do the same job but have completely different attributes.
- Titles are imprecise frameworks.
- Titles place an absolute professional value on individuals.

### R.I.P. Business Cards, Resumes, and Titles
- Titles, like business cards and resumes, are an artifact of a time when information was scarce.
- As a leader, it's your responsibility to push your folks into uncomfortable situations in which they'll learn, document, and recognize their accommplishments, and then help them recover from their failures as quickly as possible.
- Be more than just a title.