# 22. 1.0
----
- The hardest thing to build.

### Understanding 1.0
- Keep thinking, don't yell, treat those you work with decently, and you'll be fine.
- Reference Maslow's hieracrchy of needs.

### Rands 1.0 Hierarchy
- Pitch -> People -> Process -> Product

### Pitch
- Top of the hierarchy.
- If you don't have the idea, you don't know who to hire.
- Fact: You're in a hurry and don't forget it.

### People
- After your pitch, you need people to help build it.
- These are your founders.
- Fact: No one is indispensable.
- Fact: Startups almost always fail.
- You aren't a company until 1.0 is done.
- Great way to topple your pyramid for a startup is to hire folks who are not working with a sense of urgency.

### Process
- No word irks engineers more than "process".
- Fact: Process defines communication.
- Process is the means by which your team communicates.
  - Agreement on how to share information.
- Fact: Each layer shapes and moves those near it.
- A sign of a healthy pyramid is that one layer invades another.
- If your pyramid is not constantly adjusting to keep upright, something's wrong.
- Stagnation warning sign during 1.0 is when someone decides to create an organization chart defining "This is who does what."

### Product
- Fact: You don't have a company until you have a product.
- The state of constant change is the leading cause of startup burnout.
  - It's also the reason you've got to get that product out.
- A neutral party, your customers, don't care about your pyramid; they just care whether the product is useful or not.

### Using the Pyramid
- The pitch guides the people.
- The people refine the pitch.
- People and pitch create process and product.
- Your one job as keeper of the pitch is figuring out which layer is being tested and figure out which way to shove the pyramid.
- Fact: The lower the failure, the higher the cost.
- A failure of pitch is a structural failure that affects your entire company.
  - Everything in your company depends on the vision that you've presented and screwing that up can be fatal.

### Building Culture
- The pyramid is a picture that describes the construction of the culture of your company.
- Work defines the culture of the company.
  - And that's what modeled their future success.
- The product is the outcome.
- A successful 1.0 is measured by the success of the product that ships, but it is built by a seemingly endless amount of decisions, arguments, failures, and successes that you can't plan for.