# 23. The Process Myth
----
- Process is a seven-letter word that begins with P that engineers hate.
- Goal of a healthy process is to define structure so that order is maintained and predictability is increased.
- Engineers hate process that can't defend itself.

### Don't Answer the Question
- Not being able to explain the reasoning behind a process is the fastest way to enrage your engineers.
- "This is how it's always been done..." is not a good answer.

### Healthy Process Is Awesome
- When company is small, most everybody will know why things are done the way they are.
- At some point, you hit an inflection point:
  - New hires arriving exceeds your population's ability to organically infect culture and values.
  - Because of the swath of preexisting people, the arriving individual erroneously believes taht they as a single person can no longer influence the cultural course of the company.
- This leads to a fracture into two different groups:
  1. The Old Guard
    - People who've been around for a while.
    - They have a well-defined map of the different parts of the company.
    - Exemplars of what the company values.
  2. The New Guard
    - Folks that have arrived in the last year.
    - Generally confused about culture because no one has sat them down and explained it.
- Old guard doesn't understand that not everyone knows everything.
- Eventually meetings are convened and someone documents the process.
  - At this point, process is being created not as a means of control; it's being built as documentation of culture and values.
- Generally, most people come to understand process as the documentation of _how_ rather than the explanation of _why_.

### The Dry Documentation of How
- Process should be written by those who are not only intimately experiencing the pain of a lack of process, but who are also experts in the culture.

### Defend Itself
- Anyone who interacts with process either blindly follow the bulleted lists or they can ask why.
- Healthy process is required to stand up to scrutiny.
- Insist on understanding the 'why' behind process, otherwise it's a sign that you've forgotten what you believe.