# 24. How to Start
----
- A Nuts and bolts analysist of the time before you start.

### A Critical Analysis of Beginning
- Beginning is a three-phase commit
  - Fretting about starting
  - Preparing to begin
  - Actually begun
- During the Preparing To Begin phase, important work is being done
  - Your brain is smarter about thinking than you think.
    - This looks like goofing off. This is why...
  - Preparation often gets a bad rap.
    - It can come in the form of reading something completely unrelated.
    - You can't explain why this is.
  - Stress is a creativity buzz kill.
    - When stressed, you're in survival mode.
    - The immense task in front of you will not be conquered by the defensive strategies of survival.
    - Elegant solution requires offensive thinking.
- Two mental base states--coupled with the time of the day.

### Morning Stretch
- Risk of morning is exuberance.
- Issue with morning isn't whether or not you s tart, it's wrangling what you start on.
- For some, creative solutions rarely involve straight lines.
- Sometimes focusing on something unrelated allows us t o sidestep whatever block we had related to starting the daunting task.

### An Experienced Evening
- Mornings have the gift of optimism; Nothing has screwed up your day yet.
- Evenings are dark, repetitive reminders that time is going to pass and you've likely wasted some of it.
- In the morning, you unleash your creative brain.
- In the evenings, exercise your logical brain.
- Find one small thing related to your project--like researching a piece of it--and do it.

### Happenstance
- We're addicted to quick fixes.
- A hard thing is never done by reading a list, or a book, or an article about doing it.
- A hard thing is done by figuring out how to start.
> My guarantee is that what is going to make this bright-and-shiny thing awesome isn't finishing. It's all the little unexpected details you discover trying to start. It's all the small pieces of unexplainable execution that will not only make it yours, but also continue to teach you how you get things done. And when you're done, you'll discover that finishing, while cathartic, is just a good reason to go start something else.

