# 25. Taking Time To Think
----
- Are you reacting or are you thinking?
- In order to create, you've got to think.

### Reacting vs Thinking
- You don't think when you're busy because you're reacting.
- Panic is the mother of the path of least resistance.
- You won't be a successful manager without well-developed react instincts.
- For this chapter, assume your brain has two parts--the creative half and the reactive half.
  - The creative half is the source of inspiration.
- Reactive brain doesn't like to think.
  - It involves slowing down and soaking in a problem.
- Creative brain likes the unknown.
  - Only happy when it's full of new ideas.
- Thinking is hard--it doesn't fit into the daily course of business because of paradoxes and uncomfortable realities:
  - Thinking is not something you can constrain by time or a meeting.
    - There is no beginning or end--you never know when you're done.
  - Doing more thinking always pays off, but time is money.
  - The more people you include in the thinking process, the more genuine ideas you'll find, but the process of finding those ideas will linearly slow down with each person who shows up.
  - Everyone thinks differently.
- Best time to kick off deep thinking is after every major release
  - When poor design decisions are illuminated by repeated painful deferral of bugs.
  - Every less of the prior release is forefront in the team's mind.
  - There's hope that these things can be fixed for the next release.

### Getting Started
- First step is defining a team when the team can think.
- You've got to create a thinking-conducive environment in your natural setting.
- Two meetings a week; An hour each; A brainstorm meeting and a prototype meeting.
  - Ensure there's time between the brainstorm and the prototype meetings.

### Players
- Structured thinking kills thinking, but unstructured thinking leads to useless chaos.
- Meetin driver needs to steer conversation between the two, keeping it in the middle.
- Can't invite everyone.
- If you know what the initial topics are, invite only those who would have an educated opinion on it.
- If there are no topics defined, pick randomly.
- Be wary of obstructionists.
  - Those who have fallen into a total react lifestyle.
  - Tend to map every new idea against previous experience.
  - These folks are creativity buzzkills.

### Content
- Goal for the first brainstorm is to start reliving the pain of the last release.
  - Want to walk out of the first brainstorm with five hot topics that folks want to address.
- Second meeting is the prototype meeting.
  - See the results of the last brainstorm meeting in a prototype
    - Paper, code, wireframe, bulleted list.
    - Doesn't matter as long as there's documented evidence of what occurred in the prior meeting.
    - This documentation will eventually turn into mock-ups or actual working prototypes.
  - When you do get to mock-ups or prototypes, keep them lightweight and devoid of detail.
    - If it's week three and the team is arguing over details like icon design, you're too deep.

### Is It Working?
- It's a big deal to mentally stumble about during your initial brainstorming meetings.
- This seemign lack of mental coordination is what finding innovation is all about.
- Signs that you are making progress:
  - Are decisions being made? Yes, good.
  - Are decisions being revisited? Yes, good.
  - Are decisions constantly being revisited? Yes, bad. 
    - Apply some structure here. Decisions are stalling and need to be committed to.
  - Are the players changing? Depends.
    - If you're four weeks in and the faces at the table haven't changed, you might have a problem.
    - If you're working on a sizable project, odds of picking the right brainstorm team from the start is low.
    - Time to mix it up.
  - Are basic truths about your design showing up?
    - These are the gems of the brainstorm.
  - Is it therapy or work?
    - First brainstorm meeting can be just venting if it was a difficult release.
    - If you vent for more than a few weeks, then it's a problem and time to shake things up.
  - Are holy shit moments occurring?
    - Similar to basic truths, but louder and infrequent.
    - Holy shits are disruptive, but a good sign of a limber creative process.
  - Is the to-do list growing or shrinking?
    - If early in the design phase, it should be growing.
    - Towards the end, it should be shrinking.
    - Better is the enemy of done.
    - Need to draw a line on topics/ideas that you intend to tackle and stick to it.
- If you aren't staring at one hard decision per meeting, you might be wasting your time.
  - Might have the wrong people and/or wrong driver.

### When to Stop
- These meetings will slowly die off as you move from hardcore design into serious development.
- You can still fine-tune design during development.
- The trend you want to see in your meetings is that questions are being answered, not created.

### Fighting Stagnation
- Google invests 20 percent of engineering budget on thinking (employee personal projects).
- Kicking off brainstorming meetings are a tricky proposition.
  - Poorly defined, hard to run, and harder to measure.
  - What comes out is either brilliance or stupidity.
    - Difference between the two is magnificently slim.