# 26. The Value of the Soak
----
- Let your mind stumble and strike out in random directions.
- It's next to impossible to figure out which decisions matter and which ones do not.
- You can spend a lot of energy deciding what the big decisions might be, but that's much less important than making the decision.
- You have time to soak.
- The soak is a protected activity that will rarely occur during your busy day.
- Goal of the soak is an original thought.
  - Something that transforms your response from a predictable emotional reaction to a strategically considered, thought out decision.

### Emotion and Ignorance
- Break soaking activities into two buckets: active soaks and passive soaks.
- Active soaks
  - Activities that you can direct and usually involve gathering content
- Passive soaks
  - Activities when you just point your brain in a random direction and pray.
  - This is where the real work gets done.

### Active Soaking
- Ask dumb questions.
- Your first job when faced with irgnorance is information acquisition.
- It's not your job to appear knowledgeable.
  - In fact, you need to be knowledgeable.
  - Engineers will see past your feigned knowledge.
- Asking dumb questions is the best way to start figuring out what is actually going on.
- Asking also says, "I care about what we're doing enough to ask you what you think."
- Once you feel like you have a picture of what's going on, pitch it to someone.
  - If they're nodding then you're doing good.
  - If it's a blank stare, you might need to ask more questions.
- The act of linearly mapping thoughts to words exposes flaws or gaps in your thinking.
- Once your pitch is good, write it down.
  - Writing it down can expose more gaps that weren't exposed during the verbal pitch.
  - Continue asking dumb questions if more gaps are exposed.

### Passive Soaking
- Once you've pitched, written things down, and repeated a few times, stop actively working on it.
- Sleep on it.
- Your brain never stops working and your brain may come up with an elegant solution to your problem.

### Soaking Takes Time
- Any big decision or problem deserves time and consideration.
- Soaking is an act of creation.
- It's design work.
- It's strategy.
- It's removing the emotion and ignorance from a problem and then constructing an original solution.