# 28. Trickle Theory
----
- Stop. Go do one thing. Now.
- The only source of measurable truth regarding the product is the bug database.
- When faced with an impossible task, don't give in to fear.
  - You have to just start.
- Welcome to Trickle theory.

### Our Villain
- Putting the task on the to-do list does one thing: it helps you avoid the Critic.
- The Critic is your internal voice, which does careful and critical analysis of your life.
- The Critic helps talk you down from ledges.
- The Critic can also amplify your fears at the worst possible moment.

### Nothing Happens Until You Start
- For the sake of this chapter, there are two types of impossible tasks.
  - Impossibly dull tasks.
    - Work that requires no mental effort, but is vast in size.
      - eg. Bug scrubbing
  - Impossibly hard tasks.
    - eg. Creating a new product in two months.
- For both types of tasks, the first move is starting.
- Progress + momentum = confidence.

### Iterate
- Iteration and repetition aren't going to silence the Critic. Progress will.
- Once you've begun and start chewing on the task, you'll s tart to see inefficiencies and begin to fine-tune your process.
  - This is how a two-week estimate could become a two day job.
- This does not mean slice every task down.
- Individuals tend to be very bad at work estimation until they've begun the work.

### Mix It Up
- When you find yourself mentally blocked by boredom or confusion, stop and do something else.
- First, stopping shuts the Critic up about being screwed if you don't work hard on the task.
- Second, stopping to do something else is fun for you and your brain.
- Third, while you may be stopping, your brain is still processing the task in the background.

### Entropy Always Wins
- The world is changing faster than you'll ever be able to keep up with.
- Two perspectives
  - I believe I can control my world, and through an aggressive campaign of task management, personal goals, and a can do attitude, I will succeed in doing the impossible. Go me!
  - I know there is no controlling the world, but I will fluidly surf the entropy by constantly changing myself.