# 29. When the Sky Falls
----
- Concrete steps to prop up the sky.
- Assumptions about this process:
  - This is not a solo disaster.
  - You'll probably skip at least one of the following four steps. Each section will explain what will happen if you do.
  - Process will be described simply and serially, but in reality these steps overlap and often run in parallel.
  - There's a good chance this disaster is your fault.

### Step 1: The Situation in the War Room
- Your first job is to understand everything you need to know about the current state of the disaster.
  - Develop a mental model.
- You want to be able to draw a complete picture for everyone about what is happening.
- You need a war room.
  - Able to hold a quorum of people.
  - Lots of whiteboards and markers.
- Immediate task of the war room is to research, information gather, and assessment.
- The intent is to break everyone from their flow.
- Sends a clear signal that the status quo is not presently working.
- Hardest part of this step is not jumping when you think you see a place where you can start moving.
- Remember, goal for this step is information acquisition, not action.
- Understanding the situation comesi n three forms:
  - The picture I begin to draw repeatedly on the whiteboard starts to represent a realistic picture of what has actually occurred.
  - A list of additional research, work, and potential next actions is developed, revised, and iteratively prioritized.
  - After much of 1 + 2, look for a distinct moment of _this is what we need to do._

#### What happens if you ignore this
- Thinking you can both assess and solve the problem at the same time is akin to saying you can solve a math equation that you only have half of.
- Action feels like progress, but undirected action is not progress, nor is it a plan.
- Acting with incomplete data can result in the problem getting worse.

### Step 2: The "Bet Your Car" Perspective
- Now that you figured out what the problem is and have a potential solution, it's guaranteed that you're missing something.
- Two ways of determining what you've missed
  - Jump straight into the next step and discover the absence at the most inconvenient and credibility-destroying moment.
  - Check your math.
- To do the latter, you need to do two things.

#### The first thing you must do
- Vet your model with at least three qualified others.
  - People who are not directly involved in step 1.
- The moment you feel like you have a fix, you feel confidence.
- Confidence is not a plan though.
- Having a solution where all the implications of the solution are not understood is not a fix.
- You must take time to explore all the implications.

#### The second thing you must do
- Once the qualified others find the gaping holes and unintended consequences, you need to pass the new model to the folks who will be working on it and ask them if it makes sense.
- This serves a couple purposes
  - Another error correction pass for more holes.
  - A pass on prioritization.
  - An assignment of ownership.
- One of the leading causes of sky-falling situations is distributed ownership.
- As a strategy, distributed ownership seems humane.
  - We're going to put the right people on the right problems.
  - Bright people being empowered to solve their local problems.
- A sky-falling situation exists not because of a single failure on one team; It's a collection of multiple large and small mistakes on many teams that snowball into a worst case scenario.
- A likely major contribution to the disaster is the fact that multiple well-meaning and fully informed people looked at the disaster saw it coming and though, "Someone else will handle it."
- As the person who is most likely to be yelled at, your job is to be accountable.
- Your job is not to own all of the work.
  - That's why the last part of this step is to put a proper name next to each and every task.
    - And as much as possible, this name should not be yours.
      - If someone asks why your name isn't listed, let them know that it's because you're moving the entire thing forward and that it's you who will get fired if it isn't resolved.

#### What happens if you ignore this
- The problem that is most likely is failing to understand all of the implications of your solution.
- To ensure that you are absolutely confident, you should be willing to put your car on the line on the solution you propose.

### Step 3: Constant and Consistent Sky-Propping Pressure
- When the sky is falling, the grapevine is impressively active.
- While all the work is happening in the war room, and plans are being made, your job is internal public relations.
- As soon as you have something to report, send it to everyone who wants to know.
- The game isn't just overcommunication and grapevine eradication; status spamming is another means of vetting the plan and the progress.
- The better the legitimate progress, the fewer the updates.

#### What happens if you ignore this
- No matter if you have made measurable progress or that you don't have a plan yet, you still send status.
- The message you send by consistently keeping folks informed is that you are applying constant and consistent pressure on propping up the sky.

### The Elusive Step 0
- The question that you need to answer is, "What, precisely, are you trying to do?"
- It's a hard question to effectively answer when people are yelling, but phenomenal answers sound like this:
  - We need to demonstrate to this customer that we are capable of exceeding their expectations.
  - We need the people who depend on us to trust their faith in us is not misplaced.
  - We need the planet Earth to understand that we aren't evil.
- Do not make any decisions on a course of action until you have at least a credible answer to this question.
- Unfucking the situation is a bandage.
- Understanding what you're truly trying to fix is a cure.
