# 3. Stables and Volatiles
----

- There are two builders you need in the build.

### The Factions
- Stables are engineers who:
  - Happily work with direction and appreciation that there appears to be a plan, as well as the calm predictability of a well-defined schedule.
  - Play nicely with others because they value an efficiently run team.
  - Calmly assess risk and carefully work to mitigate failure, however distant or improbable it might be.
  - Tend to generate a lot of process because they know process creates predictability and measurability.
  - Are known for their calm reliability.
- Volatiles are engineers who:
  - Prefer to define strategy rather than follow it.
  - Have issues with authority and often have legitimate arguments for anarchy.
  - Can't conceive of failing, and seek a thrill in r isk.
  - See working with others as a time-consuming and onerous task, prefer to work in small, autonomous groups, and don't give a shit how you feel.
  - Often don't build particularly beautiful or stable things, but they sure do build a lot.
  - Are only reliable if it's in their best interest.
  - Leave a trail of disruption in their wake.
- Stables and Volatiles tend to hate each other.
- While your leadership instincts are going to tell you to negotiate a peace treaty, you might want to encourage a war.

### A Stable Evolution
- Stables are recovering Volatiles.
  - They've been through the trenches and worked hard to deliver 1.0.
- Stables then begin hiring volatiles--engineers that remind them of themselves.
- The new Volatiles come in wanting to build something exciting, despite the Stables putting in processes to protect what they've already built.
- The transformation of first-generation Volatiles into Stables amidst  the arrival of the second-generation Volatiles is the source of an amazing amount of organizational discontent.
- The arrival and organization of the new Volatiles actively disrupts the organization.
- Your job as a leader is to nurture this disruption.

### Wait, What?
- Once you've successfully past 1.0, you have a choice: coast and die, or disrupt.
- A Stable can certainly disrupt and innovate, but it will be in the context of the processes they've now built.
  - A Volatile will say, "There is no box"
- As a leader, you need to figure out how to invest in disruption.
  - Counterintuitive because disruption, by definition, is destructive.

### Take Crazy Risks
- A healthy company that wants to continue to grow and invent needs to invest equally in both their Stables and their Volatiles.
- Your Stables bring predictability, repeatability, and credibility to your execution.
- Your Volatiles' mission in life is to replace the inefficient, boring, and uninspired.
- Your job as a leader is the constant negotiation of a temporary peace treaty between the two.
- A Stable would say that "better is the enemy of done"
