# 30. Hacking Is Important
----
- Encouraging disruptive acts.
- Big companies often unintentionally try to forget that hacking is important.

### "Hackers Believe Something Can Always Be Better"
> The Hacker Way is an approach to building that involves continuous improvement and iteration. Hackers believe that something can always be better, and that nothing is ever complete. They just have to go fix it--often in the face of people who say it's impossible or are content with the status quo.

- The growth paradox: the end result of successful hacking is product, and that product needs to grow by building more things.
- Managers don't create product, they create process.
- Hackers don't understand the value of process.
  - Because it violates their core values.
- The growth paradox is that the chaotic means by which you found success might become distasteful to those you hire to maintain and build on that success.
- Hackers are disruptors.
- Bringing anything new into the world is a disruptive act.
- Reasonable people are often scared by the new.
  - They appreciate the predictable, profitable, and knowable world that comes with a well-defined process.
- Facebook's core va lues: focus on impact, move fast, be bold, be open, and build social value.
- Two people types of people: a high-impact, fast-moving and bold barbarian and the biz dev guy who is arguing for being open and building social value.
  - Both people are essential to a business thriving.

### Where's Dieter?
- At Apple, the most disruptive projects to the company begin in silence.
- Secret projects at Appl are institutionalized hacking.
- Engineers didn't have to worry about being barbarians because everyone there knows hacking is important.

### Unintentionally Forgetting What It Took to Get You There
- The story of every company begins with a clever hack.
- The people who grow the company are not the same people who founded it.
- A healthy product company is, confusingly, one at odds with itself.
- Failure to create some form of predictability will result in chaos.
- Failure to create some sort of well-maintained barbaric chaos inside the company guarantees that someone else will invade.