# 31. Entropy Crushers
----
- Chaos-destroying machines
- Knee jerk reaction to introducing project managers
  - Most engineers don't know what a project manager does, and if they do, they usually don't know what a good one looks like.
  - Crap project managers have ruined the reputation of the gig.
  - By suggesting you don't need PMs, you're saying that you want to do this work.

### The Project Rules
- Project manager, product manager, and program manager are different.
  - Project manager is responsible for shipping a product.
  - Product manager is responsible for making sure the right product is shipped.
  - Program manager is an uber-mutated combination of both that usually shows up to handlem ultiple interrelated projects.
- For this section, project = ship the product, product = ship the right product, and program = ship many interrelated products.
- A rule: The addition of each new person on your team increases the cost of each of the following:
  - Communication
  - Decisions
  - Error correction
- When there are fewer people and something needed to be done, you just did it.
- As company grows, more communication happens--feature review meeting, JIRA scrubbing, feature nominations, etc.
- In a growing team, as an engineering manager, you're probably doing part of the project manager's work.
  - This means you're part of the problem.
- Project managers don't write code, they don't test the use cases, and they're not designing the interace.
- A good project manager is a chaos-destroying machine.
  - Each new person added to the team creates entropy.
  - A good project manager thrives on measuring, controlling, and crushing entropy.

### The Project Concerns

**I am worried about project managers influencing project direction**
- Remember, you're no longer in a world where everyone is doing everything.
  - You're too big to be that agile at this point.
- You need role definition--being clear with everyone's ownership of what.
- Ownership means that a person is responsible for all decisions for the thing.
- A good project manager owns the execution of the machine that makes sure everything is getting done.
- Good project managers want every single person on the team to have an opinion about the product.

**I am worried about losing insight into what is going on**
- This is already happening as you add each new person to the team.
- A good project manager will instinctively create artifacts of insight.
  - They will request and find the data for measuring X, Y, and Z.
  - They will mechanize its collection and eventually present you the artifact.

**There is no crap work on my team**
- One of the easiest ways to screw up the landing of project managers is not to be painfully aware of what you need out of the role.
- What your team, and your culture, needs out ofa project manager is entirely dependent on the people, the team, the culture, the projects, and this moment in time.
- The arrival of project managers needs to coincide with a clear and present danger to the product or team.

**I am worried that process nerds like project managers are going to kill creativity and innovation on my team**
- This isn't actually the issue that folks fear.
- What they don't want to do is give up control.
- The reputation of a project manager grows over time because of their penchant for knowing everything.
  - They can eventually go crazy with power and become information brokers.
    - Which is the complete opposite of the job.
    - Fire these types of people ASAP.
- A good project manager's job is to decrease chaos by increasing clarity.
- Chaos in a complex system is a guarantee.

### The Question
- As a lead, you have three jobs--people, process, and product--and you get to choose how to invest in each.
- The irony of the arrival of crap project managers is that you're effectively punishing inefficiency with useless bureaucracy, which creates more inefficiency.