# 32. Bored People Quit
----
- How to detect and fix boredom before it's a resignation
- Boredom is easier to fix than an absence of belief.

### Detecting Boredom
- Boredom shows up quietly and appears to pose no immediate threat.
  - This makes it both easy to address and easy to ignore.
- Three techniques for detecting boredom:
  - You notice any change in daily routine.
    - A decrease in productivity is a great early sign that something is up.
    - May have nothing to do with boredom but the best way to figure it out is...
  - Asking, "are you bored?"
  - They tell you. And you listen.

### A Boredom Plan of Action
- Always need to be able to answer two questions regarding each person on the team:
  - Where are they going?
  - What are you currently doing to get them there?
- If you don't have answers, you can start figuring them out by doing some of the following...

#### Keep an interesting problem squarely in front of them
- There must be a piece of work on their plate that makes their eyes light up when they talk about it.
- If there is no project in mind that will get them rambling endlessly, then...

#### Let them experiment
- Let them scratch that itch.
- Create time for them to explore whatever they want to obsess about.
- The business justification for this effort is likely not obvious.
- The act of exploration is as valuable as the act of building.
- Exploration is hard to justify because it's hard to measure.
- When you have nothing to hold up to justify the expenditure of time, tell your project manager that your job isn't just building product, it's also building people.

#### Remember they can only take on for the team for so long
- There are legitimate and frequent situations where someone needs to suck it up and dig into crap work for longer than they'd like.
- There's work you like to do and work you have to do.
- Being left too long on have-to work is a guarantee of eventual boredom.
- We all get shit work but it's the responsibility of the person in charge to dole this work out fairly and consistently.

#### Protecting their time
- Embrace the ambiguity of their experiment.
- A perfect way to accelerate the boredom clock is to promise productive and creative time that is then taken away.
- If you do, the only thing your team learns is that you don't value the cultivation of your people.

#### Aggressively remove noise
- It's your job to evenly spread the load of daily noise across the team.
- It's your job to remember that productivity costs surrounding microtasks don't just involve the 30 minutes necessary to get them done.
- Remember, context switching is expensive.
- Two aspects of interesting work that fire up the nerd brain:
  - Identification of interesting work.
  - Making progress on that work.
  - Progress is measured in blocks of uninterrupted hours.

#### Tell them what the hell is going on
- Paying attention is only half the solution.
- The other half is regularly keeping folks in the loop regarding your thoughts.
- The simple act of saying, "I know where you want to be and I'm thinking about how to get your there" is a way to demonstrate you care about the growth of your team.

### Don't Forget What It's Like to Build a Thing
- Your job is the care and feeding of engineers.
- Their productivity is your productivity.
- If they all leave, you have no job.
- You need to also keep building stuff.
- Over time, you lose sight of what it means to be a software developer.