# 33. Bellwethers
----
- Defining an interview beyond the technical
- Hiring anyone is a risk.
- You won't know whom you hired for months.
- Success in an interview is extracting as much information as possible from the candidate.
  - This happens by throwing a wildly different set of interviewers at your candidate.

### The Core Interview Team
- Everyone on the team needs to interview every candidate.
- Interviewing is a team sport.
- By not including everyone on the team, the message you send is, "So and so's opinion doesn't matter."
- You miss out on someone's perspective.
- The _bellwethers_ are your trusted go-to set of interviewers.
  - If they give a thumbs dowm, then it's over.
- Bellwethers are your constant.
- Three key bellwethers to have for each interview.

### Technical
- In software developement, this is the most obvious skill that needs to be assessed.
- Also one that is done the worst.
- Engineers are great at being technical, not so much social.
- You could be the best engineer but worst technical interviewer because you're uncomfortable with dealing with human beings.
- Find a technical bully.
- If you're an engineering manager and you can't assess technical ability, you're screwed.
- Find the person who knows their stuff and has no issue figuring out whether your candidate does as well.

### Cultural
- Two aspects of the candidate that needs to be assessed.
  - Culture fit within the team.
  - Culture fit within the company.
- Technical ability is quantifiable; culture fit isn't.
- A culture fit is a team fit.
- Your next hire should support the functioning of your unit rather than detract from it.
- This bellwether is the person who best represents the soul of the team.
  - They can figure out your candidate.

### Vision (Strategic or Tactical?)
- The bellwether for this will have to figure out the trajectory of the candidate.
- A strategic hire is someone who is going to push their agenda, their opinion.
  - Actively engaged in what they're doing, networking with others who do it, and tell anyone how they're going to do it.
  - These people will piss people off because of the annoying intensity of their agenda.
- A tactical hire is a person who is filling a well-defined need.
  - eg. A databse guy.
  - Tacticals know their stuff, but that's all they know.
  - They're not interested in pushing an agenda.
  - Want to get their work done in relative silence.
- Your job is to understand what type of vision you need for your hire.
- Your job is to understand who the right person is to interview for this ability.
  - Generally, the manager is the person who is the bellwether for vision.
    - They have the vision for the group.
    - They understand that vision defines career path and need to know as early as possible.
- A strategic isn't going to stay with the team long.
- A tactical is going to be happy as long as you keep the work relevant and constant.

### Team Consensus
- Always have an interview feedback meeting.
  - Don't do email or hallway chat about it.
- The ultimate choice is the hiring manager's.
- In a round table
  - Take notes as each person gives feedback
  - Opinions are being shaped by information.

### Be a Fool
- Trust your bellwethers.
- If their opinion contradicts the team consensus, you need to take special care to explain your decision to every person on the team.

### Still Delusional
- Even with the best bellwethers, hiring anyone is a huge risk.
- Gather as much information on your candidate as you can
  - Interviews
  - Blog posts
  - Open source contributions
- The more information you have, the lower the risk.