# 34. The Ninety-Day Interview
----
- Eight steps to follow during your first nintety days.

### Deliberation
- Your first job is to relax.
- There is an industry s tandard regarding the amount of time it takes to make a hire, and it's 90 days.
- This chunk of time applies to your new job as well.
- The less you trust your instincts, the more you'll learn about your new job.

#### 1. Stay Late, Show Up Early
- You need a map of the people you work with.
- Doing this allows you to better understand people's relation to the day.

#### 2. Accept Every Lunch Invitation You Get
- People will be going out of their way to include you.
- You need to take the time to reciprocate.
- The guy you're sure you won't work with--accept his invite too because he has perspective and stories that you don't have right now.

#### 3. Always Ask About Acronyms
- Cracking the language nut is essential to assessing the hand you've been dealt.

#### 4. Say Something Really Stupid
- It's okay to say something stupid; It's inevitable.
- It is very well signaling that you are trying to figure things out.

#### 5. Have a Drink
- Stories are revealed over drinks, not lunch.


**Note: The next few on this list should only be done when you have the confidence that you won't be doing permanent damage to your still-developing reputation.**

#### 6. Tell Someone What To Do
- Everything up to this point involves listening and asking questions.
- The goal is to exert your influence; to test your influence.
- More importantly, it's to test your knowledge of the organization and see if this thing you have to say is true.
- Trust it.

#### 7. Have an Argument
- Riskiest move on this list.
- If you pull number 6, this might happen anyway.
- Goal is to understand how the organization values conflict.
  - Can these people argue without losing their shit?
  - Do they argue in the open or prefer passive-aggressive subtlety?
- You'll learn two things here:
  - How does this group of people make a decision?
  - How passionate and verocious they are.

#### 8. Find Your Inner Circle
- In your interactions, you'll build a short list of people who share your instincts.
- This is the list of people you share your raw inspiration and stories with because they'll help you refine them.
- You'll instinctively be attracted to these people.
- This takes time... 90 days perhaps.

### Finishing the Interview
- Your job interview isn't over until you've asked all the questions and heard all the stories.
  - It isn't over until you understand the structure that has formed around this particular group of people.
  - Not just the organization chart, but the personalities that have settled here.
  - It isn't over until you have a framework for how you'll interact with these people and their goals.
  - It isn't over until you've changed to become part of a new team.