# 35. Managing Nerds
----
- A leadership checklist for those who build.

### A Worst-Case Scenario
- In order to manage nerds, you need to be one.
- Assuming, for this chapter, that you are not a nerd.

### A Problem
- Your normal leadership moves aren't going to work.
- A nerd is motivated to understand how a thing works.
- Your job with your nerd is to bring calm to their chaos.
- Your nerd treasures consistency.
- Three guaranteed topics that people will lose their minds over: space, compensation, and titles.
- Off the cuff decisions will be analyzed intently by your nerds.
- A predictable world is a comforting one for your nerd.
- Your nerd treasures efficiency.
- Your nerd is constantly sifting through your decisions and information so he can discover the optimal system that governs everything.

### Chasing the Two Highs
- The First High: When nerds see a knot, they want to unravel it.
  - The process of unknotting something is a seemingly haphazard one.
  - There's a magical moment when the tangled knot gets solved.
  - This mental achievement is the first nerd high.
  - eg. untangling christmas lights.
- The Second High: Complete knot domination.
  - Constant removal of friction is satisfying, but at some point, your nerd will ask, "What's with all the knots?"
  - A switch is now flipped and your nerd is no longer trying to unravel a knot, they're trying to understand why all knots exist.
  - Your nerd has a focus on achieving complete understanding of a system that is currently pissing them off, and they use this understanding to build a completely knot-free product.
  - Chasing this second high is where nerds earn their salary.
- If the First High is the joy of understanding, the Second High is the act of creation.
- You need to obsessively protect both your nerd's time and space.
- The road to either High is a mental stated called The Zone.
- Three things about The Zone:
  - The almost constant quest of the nerd is managing all the crap that is preventing him from entering the Zone.
    - Includes meetings, casual and useless fly-bys, biological nuisances, etc.
    - First 15 minutes of getting in the Zone is building focus--like a Jenga construction that small distractions can topple.
  - Every second you allow a nerd to remain in the Zone is a second where something miraculous can occur.
  - Your nerd has built themselves a cave.
    - The goal is to protect the Zone so they can chase the Highs.
    - Ask yourself how they're protecting their focus:
      - Headphones? Back to the door? Massive screen real estate?
- Your nerd has a _hoodie_ that gives them permission to ignore the world.
  - Interrupting hoodie-writing is a capital offense.
- It's irrational and it's delicious.
- Your job is both identification and enforcement of hoodie time.
- When you ask your nerd to build something significant, they're default response will be to build it from scratch--better than anyone else has.
  - Not-invented-here syndrome.
  - First, they probably can but it'd be an expensive undertaking.
  - Understanding this opening position is important:
    - They are chasing the First High.
    - They'd rather design their own inspiration than adapt to someone else's.
    - When they rather write their own solution, what they are saying is that they have not devoted the necessary time to understanding the existing solution.
      - It's always more fun to build than to investigate someone else's crap.
- Nerds aren't typically bitter; they're just well informed.
  - Snark from nerds is a leading indicator that you're wasting their time.
- You can't invoke the productivity of the Highs.
  - You can protect the cave and honor the hoddie, but the nerd will choose when to go deep.

### The Nerd Burden
- You and your nerd are probably already aligned with regard to chaos--it's guaranteed.
- Your job is to build calm and dark places where invoking the Zone is easy.
- Help them scale by knowing when they're stuck or simply bored.
- Let them chase those Highs.