# 36. NADD
----
- Multitasking as art
- Nerd Attention Deficiency Disorder
- Inability to function at your desktop unless you've got at least five tasks going at the same time.

### A Nerd Diagnosis
- Existence and amount of NADD is directly related to how you've chosen to deal with the media deluge that has accompanied our insatiable thirst for new technology.
- You've likely gone one of three ways:
  - You've checked out. You don't own a TV, and it's unlikely you're even reading this chapter.
  - You enjoy your content in moderation.
  - You surf the content fire hose.
    - Tabs, tabs everywhere.

### The Context Switch
- NADD sufferers are amazing multitaskers--but it isn't their fundamental skill. It's the context switch.
- In order to focus on something, you need to spend time and energy to get your brain in the right mental state.
  - Example: You're reading a news article; It gets ripped out of your hand and the same news is on the TV.
    - It's the mental shift from reading a story to watching it.
- What separates an NADD sufferer from everyone else is that the context switch is transparent.
- They've had the mental muscle trained over years of switching between random streams of data.
- Anyone can multitask. NADD sufferers multitask with deft purpose.
  - On a quest of high-speed information acquisition and processing.

### Leveraging NADD
- How else can you deal with a world where media is forced on you at every turn? You become very adept at controlling it.
- More good news:
  - Folks who are not afflicted with NADD think those who are can't focus.
    - Those with NADD have an amazing ability to focus when they choose to.
      - Granted, it's not our natural state.
      - It can take longer than some to get in the Zone.
  - The internet is designed for NADD.
    - Websites and applications are designed not to answer the question, "Do you want to learn?" but rather, "How long do I have your attention?"
  - NADD can advance your career, if you're in the right career.
    - NADD is perfect for working at a startup, shipping software, dealing with fire drills.
      - Managing these situations comes easier because of the reduced cost of the context switch for NADD sufferers.
  - If the building you are currently in is burning to the ground, go find the person with NADD on your floor.
    - They likely know where the fire escape is as well as helpful tips on how to a void smoke inhalation.

### Downsides
- It's a lot of work to figure out your personal regimen of digesting the world.
  - You'll miss things and it'll annoy you.
  - It'll . drive you incessantly to look for the next big thing.
- You'll sound like a know-it-all.
  - Try not to.
  - Most people are happy without all the random information.
- You won't have much patience for those who have not c hosen the NADD-like life.
- You might be explaining something and minutes later, give up.
  - Chances are they might have gotten it but you're just afflicted with a disease where your attention span is that of a second grader.
- NADD is not going away.