# 37. A Nerd in a Cave
----
- The purpose of a cave is not to insulate, but germinate.

### The Cave
- A cave wraps you in comfort.
- The nerd cave has some specific traits:
  - A computer on a desk with ready access to the internet.
    - In the cave, the internet is the lifeblood.
  - World-canceling features such as a door or noise-reducing headphones.
    - A nuisance to significant others.
  - A random collection of comforting nerd knick knacks.
    - Varies wildly from nerd to nerd.
  - Something to drink.
    - The drink is a mental pause.
  - A well-defined layout.
  - A view.
    - The view is a mental break.

### The Zone
- Morning routine is designed to get you in the Zone.
- Anything that you perceive as beautiful, useful, or fun came from someone stumbling through the Zone.
- Once you've entered the zone, you should be off limits. Intruding into the cave and disrupting the zone is like standing in front of a movie theatre and making a scene.
  - You're ruining the mood and killing a major creative work.
- Odds are, once you're in the zone, any interruption might turn you into an asshole.

### The Snap
- No one deserves to be on the receiving end of the snap.
  - Can be a glare, a raised voice; something designed to indicate you are pissing me off with your presence.
- Yes, it's not fair. It's an irrational reaction.
- Invasion of the zone is akin to some primal activity that required the brain to wire itself for immediate, irrational response.

### The Place
- Very similar to the zone in appearance.
- If the zone is akin to playing power forward in a championship hockey game, the Place is the six hours spent in the weight room the day before.
- The rule:
  - Your significant other can interrupt the place . with impunity.
    - If you let me linger in the place like you should let me work in the zone, you'll never see me.
  - You may mistake the place for the zone.

### Other Places
- Nerds are rewarded for structure.
- It's an art of patterns, repetition, structure, and efficiency.
- The places we create in our homes and in our minds are designed in the same fashion.
- In these comfortable places, we forget that some of the most interesting stuff happens elsewhere.