# 38. Meeting Creatures
----
- The humans you will meet.
- Meetings are composed of people.
- Meetings are composed of creatures.
  - The roles, traits, quirks of the people who show up in your meetings.
- Knowing who they are can help you understand your meeting and knowing what they do can save you time.

### The Anchor
- "It's all about me."
- The person that everyone is talking to, who will be deciding things.
- This person is the reason the meeting is happening.
- Two major things to be wary of with your anchor:
  - Make sure they know their job.
    - A clear agenda that anoints the anchor right ouf othe gate is the best way to make sure everyone knows who the decision maker is.
  - You've got to know what to do when there is no anchor present.
    - Best move is to reschedule.

### Laptop Larry
- "Pardon me, what?"
- Easy to identify; the one who isn't paying attention.
- Spends half his time half-listening to the meeting proceedings.
- Have him put his laptop away. Really.
- If notes need to be taken, appoint someone to do it.

### Mr. Irrelevant
- "I'm just happy to be here"
- Mostly harmless.
- There's a reason he's here and you need to understand that reason before you punt him.

### Chatty Patty
- "I don't shut up"
- This person never shuts up.
- Chatty Patty is incapable of conveying thoughts in a concise manner.
- Need to determine if Chatty Patty is actually Ms. Irrelevant.
- Your job is to contain Chatty Patty.
- Keep her from verbally wandering.

### Translator Tim
- "I know every acronym ever. FTW!"
- First of two utility creatures.
- He speaks the language of everyone in the room.
- Translates software acronyms to hardware acronyms.
- He is essential when you'ev got groups of folks who come from different parts of the organization.
- Be wary if Tim isn't neutral with regard to the topic.
  - He'll be translating in his favor.

### Sally Synthesizer
- "What he's saying is..."
- Sally's job is to end meetings.
- The second utility creature.
- Grabs the conversation, no matter how messy, and derives the basic truth of what was just discussed.
- She doesn't miss a thing that's being said.
- She's fully aware of the relative significance not only of what is being said, but also who is saying it.
- She provides essential forward momentum to the meeting.
- Can be biased and will synthesize in her favor.
- Can get drunk with power because her skill is invaluable.

### Curveball Kurt
- "The sky is pancakes."
- Easy to identify; You have no clue what he's talking about.
- Can also be Mr. Irrelevant.
- Worst situation is if Curveball is your anchor.

### The Snake
- "I'm actually the anchor. Ssssssh."
- Some anchors like to hide.
  - Perceived anchor says, "Snake? Your thoughts?"
- The Snake move only works a few times within a company before word gets out who the real anchor is.