# 39. Incrementalists and Completionists
----
- Realists at war with the dreamers
- Don't waste your time solving problems in e-mail.
- Two distinct personalities when it comes to devising solutions to problems: incrementalists and completionists.
- Incrementalists are realists.
  - Good idea of what is achievable given a problem to solve, a product to ship.
  - Tends to know all the secrets.
- Completionists are dreamers.
  - Tend to have a very good idea how to solve a given problem: the right way.
- How do you solve the problem of arguing about degrees of rightness?
  - You guessed it.  You, the manager get to do it!

### Somewhere in the Middle
- First ignore the problem that they're arguing about.
  - It's important but what you want to get is some value out of these unique perspectives.
- The simplest trick is to find common ground between the two.

### Incrementalists Need Vision
- What defines an incrementalist's day is the raw amount of stuff they do.
- This person is driven by the goal of constantly--incrementally--making progress.
- It's not always clear what direction they are headed, despite the constant motion.
- Your goal with incrementalists is to get them to define or see the plan.
  - They normally can't see past the next meeting.
- Your completionist is important in getting them on board with the big picture.

### Completionists Need Action
- Spend their days wondering how things got so bad.
- Usually have a two-year and five-year solution in mind.
  - The problem with the five-year solution is that it drastically changes the immediate solution.
- Imagine being the completionist and seeing the incrementalists pushing short-sighted solutions.
- What they make up for in strategic vision, they lack the ability to push the agenda with the people who are needed to make anything happen.

### Two Different Coffee Addictions
- Incrementalists never finish a thing.
  - They are addicted to motion so the concept of "done" means no more motion.
  - Need to be wary of incrementalist constantly inventing new ways of tackling the problem instead of actually tackling the problem.
- Completionists aren't saying anything because they are deeply considering the problem.
  - Usually unlikely to speak until their plan is fully formed.
  - Be wary that they spend too much time thinking and less time doing.

### See It Yet?
- One personality has the skills to get stuff done but doesn't have a plan to see it through.
- The other personality has the plan but may lack the know how.
- Your job is to find and marry these personality types in the organization.
  - Together, they become a complete strategically tactical product team.
- The arguing that the two personalities do is good.
  - It's not fear based.
  - They are arguing on _how_ to get something done.