# 4. The Rands Test
----
- Take a brief test to understand the health of your team.
- Growing rapidly teaches you one thing well: how communication continually finds new and interesting ways to break down.
- Problems center around folks who've been around longer and who also tend to have more responsibility.
  - As far as they're concerned, how they communicated before will remain as efficient and simple each time the group doubles in size.
  - Spoiler, it isn't.

### The Rands Test: 11 Possible Points
- Do you have a one-on-one?
- Do you have a team meeting?
- Do you have status reports?
- Can you say "no" to your boss?
- Can you explain the strategy of the company to a stranger?
- Can you explain the current health of business?
- Does the guy/gal in charge regularly stand up in front of everyone and tell you what he/she is thinking? Are you buying it?
- Do you know what you want to do next? Does your boss?
- Do you have time to be strategic?
- Are you actively killing the Grapevine?

#### Do you have a consistent one-on-one where you talk about topics other than status? (+1)
- Usually, it's the first meeting that gets rescheduled when shit hits the fan.
- The last thing you want to do is reschedule one-on-one time.
- Point of a one-on-one is to have a conversation about something of substance.
- Status should not be the point.
- 1:1 is a weekly investment in the individuals that make up your team.

#### Do you have a consistent team meeting? (+1)
- The team meeting has all the requirements of the 1:1--consistency and focus on topics of substance.
- Status has a bigger role in a team meeting.
- Use this time to address "gossip, rumors, and lies".
- Next topic of significance is, "Did we make tangible progress on something of significance?"
  - Great time to identify what's broken and discuss how to fix it.

#### Are handwritten status reports delivered weekly via email? (-1)
- How is information moving around the company?
- E-mail based status reports are one of the clearest signs of managerial incompetence and laziness.
- Usually, you are already using other tools that convey a significant amount of status regarding what's going down each week:
  - Version control
  - Slack
  - Project management software
- There is also a lot of noise from the tools you're using.
- Your job as a manager is to filter out the noise and deliver the essential information to your boss.
- E-mailed status reports say one thing to 90% of the people who write them: "You don't value my time"

#### Are you comfortable saying "no" to your boss? (+1)
- Part of a healthy communication structure is when information moves easily around the team, organization, and company.
- If you walk into a meeting with your boss unwilling to speak your mind, something is broken.

#### Can you explain the strategy of your company to a stranger? (+1)
- Demonstrates whether you have a clear map of the company in your head.
- If you're not a leader, you might think this map is someone else's responsibility.
  - It's someone else's responsibility to define the map.
  - It's your responsibility to understand it so you can measure it.

#### Can you tell me with some accuracy the state of the business? (Or could you go to someone somewhere and figure it out right now?) (+1)
- If the executives can't successfully predict the state of their business, something is wrong.
- This is a picture that you are constantly building.
- If you have a map of what the company intends to do, it's easier to understand whether or not it's doing it.

#### Is there a regular meeting where the guy/gal in charge gets up in front of everyone and tells you what he/she is thinking? (+1) And are you buying it? (+1)
- Directors, leads, and managers tend to stay close to current events because it's their job.
  - It's also their job to take steps to keep the information flowing.
  - It starts with the CEO.
- Does the CEO stand up and give you his impression on what the hell is going on on a regular basis?
- These meetings are important
  - Gives everyone access to the CEO
  - Allows him/her to explain their vision for the company.
  - Hopefully allows anyone to stand up and ask a question.

#### Can you explain your career trajectory? (+1) Bonus: Can your boss? (+1)
- Part of a healthy organization is what folks receiving and retransmitting information are doing with it.

#### Do you have well-defined and protected time to be strategic? (+1)
- Busy is usually tactical, not strategic.
- If you have time in which you're investing in yourself while at work, and your boss is cool with it--give yourself a point.

#### Are you actively killing the Grapevine? (+1)
- There's no way you're going to prevent folks from randomly talking to each other.
- In fact, you want to encourage it.
- 1:1s and meetings can only get you so far.
- What you can change is, is the quality of information that's wandering around the comapny.
- In the absence of information, people make shit up.

#### A Start
- Your course of action is dependent on what you care about, and the Rands Test points out good palces to start.
