# 40. Organics and Mechanics
----
- Moving forward methodically or simply all over the place.
- As an individual contributor or a manager, you interact with two populations:
  - Those you work with.
  - Those you work for.
- You speak the Truth to your coworkers.
  - Each of you are slogging it out in your respective trenches.
- With managers, you speak the Way.
  - Things we shall do to achieve organizational enlightenment.
  - Different content and different tone.
- To understand how to speak to your manager, you need to understand how they acquire information.
  - Either organically or mechanically.

### The Itch Perspective.
- Think of any problem as a very complex itch.
  - Scratching this itch will take some work.
- The inner dialog for a mechanic and an organic are different regarding the itch.
  - Mechanics
    - Move forward methodically.
    - Carefully gather information in a structured manner.
    - Stores information to make it easy to find again.
    - Quietly observe, stay on message, comfortably predictable.
    - Annoys the organic.
  - Organics
    - Seemingly asks meaningless questions.
    - All over the place.
- Mechanics gather information mechanically because they aren't great at relating to people.
  - You need to push information in a structured, well-known, and consistent manner.
- Organics ask questions, picking up content from smaller questions and reactions to questions.

### If You Work for an Organic...
- Trust that they've got a plan.
  - Even though it may not be immediately apparent.
- They tend to have a more complete picture about what is going down because they are better networked.
- If you're an Organic, you'll love your one-on-ones.
- If you're a Mechanic, you'll feel lost with your organic manager.
  - You're OK with minor forms of micromanagement because it gives you structure.
- Organics can miss detail as they hurry from place to place.

### If You Work for a Mechanic...
- Will not believe you're dealing with something until they feel the structure that encompasses a problem you're solving.
- You must overload them with data.
- If they keep asking the same question and none of your responses are working, you need to let them know that you don't understand what they're asking.
- If you're an Organic, you'll wrongly assume that mechanics don't trust you.
  - You're right, they don't.
  - You build that trust by acting like a mechanic.
    - You don't need to transform into a mechanic--just be able to speak like one long enough.
- Mechanics rarely inspire organics.

### Look Out For...
- The most dangerous organic/mechanic type is the switch-hitter.
- Mechanical organics
  - Have the tricks of organic information gathering.
  - Have the organization skills of the mechanic.
  - They know everything and never forget a bit.
- Organic mechanics
  - Have extreme depth of knowledge.
    - But no obvious thread that ties it all together.
  - There is a thread and purpose. They just aren't letting oyu see it.
  - Will keep you on your heels.

### The Answer Is in the Middle
- Organics vs Mechanics is a waste of time.
> A purely mechanical organization lacks inspiration. A purely organic organization is total chaos.
- Organics fill mechanical blind spots with their intuition and passion while mechanics create a health, solid home where nutty organics can run into things at speed.