# 41. Inwards, Outwards, and Holistics
----
- Flavors of leadership
- All sorts of titles surrounding the management caste.
  - The names merely hint as to what the person cares about.
  - You should care what they care about.
- Three distinct classes of managers with their own agenda.
  - First line manager
  - middle manager
  - executive/senior manager
- These names give you a clue where they are on the organizational chart, but don't tell you what they do or how they are motivated.
  - Need a different set of names for that.

### The Vision Hierarchy
- Best way to understand a manger's agenda is to figure out what he thinks about all day.
  - What does he mentally s tare at all day?
    - Likely one of three directions.
- Inwards
  - Responsible for a small team of folks working on a single product or technology.
  - Vision is focused on their team and their product.
  - Don't tend to be involved cross-functionally unless their team has dependency on an external team.
  - Often junior managers.
- Holistics
  - Traditionally make up the middle layer of management.
  - They are staring across the organization.
  - Likely managers of managers; responsible for multiple products and multiple teams.
  - Main job is to figure out what the hell is going on everywhere in the organization.
  - They're actually running the company.
  - Constantly in information acquisition mode.
  - Generally spread thin.
- Outwards
  - Senior managers, VPs, and CEOs.
  - Wellbeing of the company is a responsibility of the holistics.
  - Vision is focused on the outside world.
  - Cares about public perception of the company, relationship with it's customers, and letting people know how well the holistics and inwards are doing.
  - While not their job to run the company on a daily basis, they are accountable for it.

### Agenda Confusion
- A manager can ahve two titles.
  - The title they give themselves.
  - Perception of the rest of the organization.
  - In a healthy organization, these roles are the same, but most organizations aren't healthy.
- A variation of this confusion is when the title has been granted but not used.
  - eg. an Inward promoted to holistic.
- Worst example of this confusion is also one of the biggest reasons for micromanagement.
- If you're being micromanaged, it means two things:
  - It feels like you're doing unnecessary work.
  - You feel the person asking you to do this work is being unreasonable.
- Micromanagement is often a result of a manager jumping from one management class to another.

### Watch for Growth
- The progression from inward to holistic to outward is a strategic one.
  - eg. Junior manager starts out caring about the quality of one product and if they continue to grow, they end up caring about the health of an entire company.
  - Watching this growth is essential to your own professional growth.
- Young managers who spend all their time looking for advantage for themselves are going to screw the team at some point.