# 43. Free Electrons
----
- Care and feeding of the highly productive.
- Moving code around where nothing substantially changes; it just looks different.
  - We'll call this "coding by hope"
  - Generally results in incremental fixes caused by crappy basic architectural design.
  - Excuses become lengthy and believable.
  - All the hours in the world aren't going to help even if the engineer believes they could pull it off.
- Once you are rewarded for releasing crap, you begin a blind walk down a path of mediocrity.
- Two step fix for this situation:
  - An engineer adjustment
  - A miracle.
- Give the engineer a task that they can make significant forward progress on.
  - Trivial little fixes all over the place that are ignored.
  - Yes, it may bruise the engineer's ego but they'll be cranking out lots of work.
- You need a Free Electron
  - The single most productive engineer that you're ever going to meet.
  - Can do anything when it comes to code.
  - Can dive into a pile of spaghetti code, make sense of it, and actually get it working.
- Two classes of free electrons
  - Senior electrons
  - Junior electrons
  - Both have similar productivity yields.
  - Senior electrons have become politically and socially aware.
    - Many CTOs fall into this category.
  - Junior electrons have the ability, just not the experience with dealing with people.

### Care and Feeding
- Be aware if you are lucky enough to have a free electron in the organization.
- Keep them engaged
  - Two primary tasks in an engineering organization:
    - Research
    - Development.
  - Free Electron is capable of doing development, their value in the organization is research.
  - They define the bleeding edge.
  - If they are stuck in development, they'll get bored.
  - A departing Free Electron will permanently damage the productivity of your group.
- Misdirected free electron intensity can yield odd results.
  - eg. Slippery memory corruption bugs assigned to a Free Electron resulted in the bugs being fixed and the entire database layer being rewritten.
- Free electrons sometimes will not engage and they won't explain why.
  - High functioning and have strong opinions about everything.
    - But they may never tell you those opinions.
  - They may disagree with a decision and not act on it.
    - They're probably right.
    - They just didn't want to take the two hours to explain it.
- It's a team.
  - Even though they're incredibly productive, Free Electrons are part of the team.
  - Don't give the Free Electron any special treatment any more than you give each person on your team your focused attention.

### Back to Jerry
- Free Electron can dive into the tangled mess of work from the engineer from earlier.
- You'll end up r acing to file bugs against the new owrk to keep the Free Electron engaged.