# 44. The Old Guard
----
- The cultural bellwether of the company.
- Dunbar's Number is a favorite blunt diagnosis for the pains that affect rapidly growing teams.
- The number describes a point at which a group of people can no longer effectively maintain social connections in their respective heads.
- If your team or company is rapidly growing, it's worth thinking about how you're going to help them feel connected.
- There is a more interesting, emergent behavior during rapid growth, and it's led by The Old Guard.

### The Won
- Origina story:
  - Small group of inspired people has an idea.
  - Small group ignores t he naysayers and pursues the idea.
  - Small group is at war with conventional wisdom; they are at war.
  - Small group is learning who they are as part of their struggle to survive.
  - Some folks don't make it--and those that survive are tightly bound together.
  - They begin winning.

### The New Guard
- After years, the idea from the Old Guard becomes the business.
- New eager faces arrive when the business is faced with the question, "How are we going to scale?"
- This is the New Guard.
- The organization of the Old Guard is instinctively flat.
  - There is rapid and organic error correction because everyone has line of sight on everything.
- Old Guard has recognized experience and demonstrates to the New Guard that they have instincts.
  - They can rapidly make important decisions with the barest of facts.
  - Have a sense of urgency rooted in their belief that this thing they built is their baby.
- Old Guard's instincts are well earned and essential, but instincts don't scale without help.

### New Guard Friction
- The divide created between the Old and New Guard is pradoxical.
  - Old Guard recognizes that there's too much to do and there is no way the expertise needed in order to evolve is under the roof.
  - The new hires are a cure that the Old Guard both created and loves.
- Old Guard hires eager people to build more amazing thigns.
  - Each additional human creates a  growing knowledge and communication tax.
  - Each person is slightly altering the culture simply with their presence.
  - Everything is going to change in six months because the team is growing so fast.
  - Decisions s tart to happen more slowly.
  - Responsibility and Ownership become opaque.
  - Execution becomes stove-piped.
  - Work is duplicated because the organism has liekly crossed Dunbar's number.
  - Learning can no longer occur via osmosis.
- The New Gaurd, with new hire spirit and lack of historical instincts, start on important work that the Old Guard both hates and desires at the same time.
- The New Guard will do the following:
  - Start to write things down both for themselves and for those who will come after them.
  - Sit down with different teams and agrees to contracts on how they will get work done.
  - Imports language from prior companies to support and define their various emerging causes.
    - This language often comes in the form of important sounding, but equally mystifying, acronyms.
  - And they do a lot of this work via the scheduling of meetings.
- The New Guard is creating a lot of process that smells like big company bullshit.
  - Old Guard worries that the new faces are fundamentally changing the culture.
- The Old Guard can't scale their company without the help of the New Guard.
- The Old Guard's instincts about what works in this particular organism is based on lessons from the past rather than the requirements of the future.
  - This may not allow them to scale.

### A Culture Quandary
- The critique of this time manifests in different ways:
  - "We're moving slower"
  - "I don't know what's going on"
  - "We feel like a big company"
  - "We're forgetting who we are"
- In order to build a healthy company that scales, you're going to need to build infrastructure and process that is going to connect the various parts of your company.
- It's possible that too much process or the wr ong process is developed during this build-out.
  - When the inevitable debate occrus, it should not be about the process.
  - It should be about values.
  - "How does this process reflect our values?"
- The largest battles between Old and New Guard exist because the Old Guard has not effectively documented and shared the values that the company embodies.
- What ends up missing in the dialog is a discussion.
- The Old Guard is the cultural bellwether of the company.
  - It's their responsibility to not only take the time to define the key values of the culture, but also to communicate the nuance of those values over and over again.
  - When it becomes apparent those values are no longer serving the company, they must be willing to let them evolve.