# 45. Rules for the Reorg
----
- Traversing massive change.
- A reorg is not a layoff.
- Layoffs can occur as part of a reorg, but they are a side effect, not a cause.
- Teams and products are shifted around in order to account for a shift in company strategy.
- Useful tools to pay attention to and tips for surviving it:

### Rule #1: Figoure Out Your Role
- When you first get wind of it, you have a choice:
  - Do you sit back and watch?
  - Are you going to actively dive into the chaos?
- Key thing to remember is that reorgs represent opportunity.
  - Even if your team isn't involved, this would be a good time to pitch your boss on fixing any long-standing organization problems in your group.
- The chances that you can effect change are vastly higher in the midst of a reorg.

### Rule #2: People Are Paranoid
- No one knows what is going to happen.
- This creates a culture of paranoia.

### Rule #3: The Grapevine Gone Made
- Information that starts out as fact will become more and more rumor as it moves from person to person.
- We want to know what's going on, and when we don't, we make stuff up to fill the gaps.
- Be patient and confirm tidbits of information with independent sources before you believe anything.

### Rule #4: Reorgs Take Forever
- Reorgs take forever.
- If you've got skin in the game, you need to stay engaged for the duration.
- If you don't, sit back and enjoy the scurrying.
- A reorg isn't over until someone important has printed out a new organizational chart and presented it to the entire company.

### Rule #5: Most Folks Love Reorgs (But Hate to Admit It)
- Reorgs represent opportunity to those who are unhappy with the current state of the org.
- People are incapable of shutting up.
- People actually love the gossip.

### The Only Rule: Patience
- Large groups of people move incredibly slowly.
- Reorgs affect an entire company.
- That means movement on the reorg is on a magnitude you're unfamiliar with.