# 46. An Unexpected Connection
----
- The act of obsessively understanding in order to find connections.

### Two Buckets
- The relevancy engine is the nerd's ability to instantly and with little conscious effort parse all incoming information into one of two buckets.
  - Relevant
  - Irrelevant.
- A defensive information-management strategy built as a reaction to the nerd's innate passion for information and understanding.
- Items placed in the irrelevant bucket are aggressively ignored.
- Items in the relevant bucket are flagged as compelling and investigated further.

### The Value of Relevance
- The real value comes when we've vetted the relevant.
- The act of researching yields even more relevant data that allows the idea to be fully indexed and stored away for later use.

### To Wit
- Processing of relevancy has three steps:
  - Collect the relevant.
  - Research and index if necessary.
  - Connect the relevant in efficient and entertaining ways.
- Nerds are witty because they connect the relevant to the present quickly and in clever ways.
- Laughter is often the by-product of these observations, but so too is the hard silence found after the discovery of an uncomfortable truth.
- The primary goal is not laughter, but the art of the impressive connection.

### Connecting the Relevant
- The art of the connection is the end result of a nerd's due diligence performed on anything that falls into the Relevant bucket.
- Laughter is sometimes the end result of connections--the recognition of the clever between two dissimilar items or the absurd lack of any connection at all.
- A successful connection brings order to two unrelated objects and that means we've discovered structure.
  - This is related to that.
  - I know more than I did a moment ago.