# 47. Avoiding the Fez
----
- Investments in avoiding irrelevance.
- Fez is the engineer who has carved out a critical path of software that's his own. The legacy code that no one knows but him.

### Understanding Where You Stand
- A healthy business is a business that is growing.
  - By growing, we mean making more money each year.
- Complacency is a job killer.
- Your job as manager is to convince Fez that growth is life.

### Annual Reviews, Briefly
- Solving Fez is going to involve strategy, effort, inspiration, luck, and time.
- If you worry about career development once a year, you're screwed.

### What's Really on Their Minds
- People do care about cash.
- How are compensation adjustments calculated?
- If you don't draw a line between a coherent understanding of an employee's performance and their reward or punishment, you are only adding fuel to the argument that "managers sit around doing nothing all day."

### First, Gather Your Thoughts, but Don't Think (Yet)
- When you're assessing an employee, you need to do so against their job, not the work they've done over the past two months.
- At the end of every momth, take an hour to jot down reflections of the team for that month.
- Regular snapshots of your team's work will construct an impression of your team that you are incapable of constructing in the moment.
- A model you can use to look at your employees and begin to understand what their career needs.
- Skill vs Will

### Skill vs. Will Plus Epiphanies
- Simple graph, with two axes
  - Skill--how much skill does that employee have to do his job?
  - Will--measurement of the employee's desire.
- This graph is not a precision instrument.
  - It's a tool to help you construct a better impression of your employee.
- Your job is to constantly and consistently push your employees to the upper-right quadrant of this graph--high skill and high will.
- You haven't screwed up the review if you've mapped your employee against the Skill/Will graph and had some epiphany regarding the Fez.
  - You've realized they're bored, or doesn't know how to architect software.
    - It's an epiphany--it's a start, but it's not a finish.
- You are not the one who needs to have the epiphany, you're employee does.
- Skill/Will fade together; but they also rise together.

### Assertiveness, Briefly
- Two management styles
  - Ask assertive--you ask in order to get stuff done.
  - Tell assertive--you tell to make progress.
- An annual review is a discussion, not a speech.
- Goal of the discussion is
  - To agree that the review is in the ballpark
- Rule of thumb: If you're delivering big bad news, schedule two meetings.
  - First meeting is to present the review, not the objectives.
  - Second meeting gives people time to digest.
    - This is where you discuss the objectives.
- High-level thoughts about the extremes on the Skil/Will graph:
  - High skill, low will:
    - Boredom is imminent--needs a change of scenery and responsibility, stat.
  - High will, low skill:
    - Needs training, mentorship, and management. They really want it. Savor this because as soon as skill kicks in, they're going to start wanting your job.
  - Low will, low skill:
    - You screwed up.
    - You ignored the needs of your employee so long that they no longer have the skills to do their job and they don't want to do it.
  - High skill, high will:
    - Great job, but be wary because no one can maintain this for long.

### Big Finish
- You hire people because they've got enough skill and will to take your job someday, whether they want it or not.
- Letting your employee know this is a signal that you expect them to succeed and reminds you to keep moving because they are right on your heels.