# 49. Nailing the Phone Screen
----
- How to prepare for an important 30 minutes.

### The Purpose
- There's a requisition that roughly describes a job that's open.
- The description is notoriously vague in order to cast the net as wide as possible.
  - The goal is to see as broad a skill set as possible.
- There are usually two buckets of skills in a job description: required and recommended.
  - At the very least, you should be in the ballpark for required.

### Your Job Is to Prepare
- Before the phone screen, you're on a fact-finding mission.
  - You've got a job description, a phone screen scheduled, and a name.
- Do your research.
  - Google the interviewer; Figure out what you can about what they do and what they care about.
  - If you have the product name and technology, repeat this process.
- Your goal is to ask great questions.
- "Do you have any questions for me?" is the most important question that will be asked.

### Back to the Beginning
- The phone screen is where you figure some things out.
  - Can we communicate?
  - A couple of clarification softballs will be asked.
    - Still trying to figure out if we can communicate.
  - What's your story?
    - Generally a hard question that requires a story.
    - Designed to explain a complex idea over the phone to someone you don't know and can't see.
    - Being a great communicator is not part of most engineering jobs, but the expectation is that you can confidently talk about this question because it spawn from your resume.
      - If we can't have an intelligent discussion about that, then there may exist an communication barrier/gap.
- Your turn: "Do you have any questions for me?"
  - If you don't have questions lined up, all they hear is, "I don't want this job".
  - It's yellow-flag on disengagement.
  - A well thought out question shows that you've bene thinking about the job.
    - You've been thinking about it outside of the phone screen.
    - It shows initiative and interest.

### The Close
- Mental checklist to see how you did:
  - Long, awkward pauses.
    - We didn't tune appropriately, but not a deal killer; just a negative.
  - Adversarial interactions.
    - If a candidate is willing to pick a fight in a 30 minute phone screen, how often will they do it on the job?
  - How'd it feel?
    - Hardest to quantify but the most important.
    - Interviewer is a representation of the culture of the team.
      - If the call was painful, how much of a pain will it be if you're on the team?
  - Specific next steps.
    - Immediate and actionable next step is the best sign of success with a phone screen.