# 5. How to Run a Meeting
----

- Tips for developing your meeting culture
- Conversation--verbal Ping Pong
  - Many different styles, but for two players, you go back and forth until someone wins.
  - Make a point, get a response.
- Difference between conversation and a meeting
  - It needs rules so people know when to talk.

### Alignment vs Creation

- Two useful types of meetings
  - alignment - Tactical communication exchanges that rarely dive into the strategic.
  - creation - diving into solving a hard problem
- A meeting has two critical components: an agenda and a referee.
- Agenda answers the question: How do I get out of this meeting so I can actually work?
  - Referees may have different agenda strategies
    - Sending agend out in an e-mail before the meeting
    - writing it down on the white board at the beginning of the email
    - etc.
  - Lack of meeting owner is a red flag.
  - Lack of referee is guaranteed disaster.
- A referee's job is to shape the meeting to meet the requirements of the agenda and the expectations of the participants.
  - A good referee not only makes sure the majority of the attendees believe progress is being made, but they're aware of anyone who doesn't believe that progress is being made at any given moment.
  - They are looking for one thing: people checked out.
- If they're doing anything except listening, they aren't listening.
- If you're the referee, you can not be checked out.
  - As the referee, you have incentive to drive the meeting to some reasonable conclusion.
- When you slack in a meeting, you are giving everyone else in the room permission to slack.
- Referee'ing is hard.
  - Refereeing meetings is incredibly situational.
- Tips for keeping people engaged
  - Steer conversation towards them and ask them a question relevant to the current state of the topic.
  - Reset the meeting with silence.
  - Change the scenery. If you were sitting, stand up now. If you weren't writing things on a whiteboard, try it.
- A meeting's progress is measured by the flow.
  - Referee's job is to keep it moving.
- Sometimes a referee needs to own it.
- As a referee and participant, you may be in a meeting where one person talks, non-stop.
  - The decision to step in and shut this person down isn't one that should be taken lightly.
  - Abuse of this dictatorial power can result in everyone shutting down.
  - Should be a last resort.
- A good referee knows
  - When the meeting is nowhere near the stated agenda, but everyone in the room is showing all the nonverbal signs of progress--so screw it, let's see where it goes.
  - When this person who appears to be rambling and wasting everyone's time is onto something that might lead to random brilliance--so let them ramble.
  - The glaring danger signs for a meeting that is doomed, whether it's a lack of preparation, the absence of a key player, or the fact the team is wound up about another issue entirely.
  - The courage it takes to stop this meeting five minutes into the scheduled hour because there is no discernible way to make progress.
- Meeting management, like people management, is often the art of managing a moment, which means the only rule that applies is entirely depending on the snowflake-like context of the moment.

### A Culture of Meetings

- Meetings must exist, but meetings cannot be seen as the only solution for making progress.
- The definition of a successful meeting is that when the meeting is done, it need never occur again.