# 50. Your Resignation Checklist
----
- A checklist for the final days.
- _If_ is uncertainty, fear.

### Rule #1: Don't Promise What You Can't Do
- If you're resigning, you'll be tempted to overcommit on deliverables because you're leaving.
  - This is your guilt talking.
- No matter how hard you try, you will become useless in your final days.
- You'll damage your reputation if you overpromise and underdeliver. So don't do it.

### Rule #2: Respect Your Network
- There are, at least, three people you'll need to make sure are aware that you want to stay in touch with them.
- No matter where you are in your career, you need to continually develop your network of people because it's likely that one of these three will assist in future employment or opportunity.

### Rule #3: Update "The Crew"
- "The Crew" is a list of people you've work with in the past 20 years that you would hire if you began a startup.
- These people may or may not be the same as those from #2.
  - Either way, make a nice gesture to them so that you're leaving an impression as well.

### Rule #4: Don't Take Cheap Shots
- This negates any positive that you did at the company.
- This also ruins your reputation amongst those who know that you're not insane.
- It's childish.
- You're the one leaving, the problem people aren't. Don't waste your energy.

### Rule #5: Do Right by Those Who Work for You and With You
- Provide a written review to all your direct reports in your last two weeks.
- Take the time for people who work for you a temperature check.
- This is a small gesture to best explain what these coworkers mean to you.

### Rule #6: Don't Volunteer to Do Work After You Leave (or, if You Do, Make Sure You Get a Lot of Money for It)
- This is a variant of the guilty conscience problem.
- You will always regret signing up for work to do after you leave.
- If you do, you should gouge the price on your previous employer.
- Your time should be spent on focusing on your new position, not on the old one.

### Rule #7: Don't Give Too Much Notice
- Another guilty conscience variant.
  - "Giving them more notice will make it easier to adjust to a post-you world."
  - Wrong.
- Extending your time extends the organization's stress regarding your departure and prevents your team from moving on.
- A concern is not a solution.

### They Know
- Yeah, you didn't finish that project you said you would.
- They know.