# 51. Shields Down
----
- A glimpse of a potential different future.
- The moment you agree to visit your friend's company despite being happy where you are.
  - You've lowered your shields and opened up the possibility of entertaining future possibilities.

### A Potential Future
- When you are indirectly asked to lower your sheids, you immediately parse, place a value, and aggregate your opinions on the following:
  - Am I happy with my job?
  - Do I like my manager? My team?
  - Is this project I'm working on fulfilling?
  - Am I learning?
  - Am I respected?
  - Am I Growing?
  - Do I feel fairly compensated?
  - Is this company/team going anywhere?
  - Do I believe in the vision?
  - Do I trust the leaders?

### Humans Never Forget
- As valued co-workers have resigned, you need to work to understand two things:
  - Why are they leaving?
  - When did their shields go down?
- The answer to the first question are generally politically correct answers that are designed to easily answer the most obvious question.
- Their shields dropped when, in the moment they are presented with the offer of potential future opportunity, they quickly evaluated their rubric and made an instant call.
- Happy people don't leave jobs they love.
- Something happened to nudge you at a critical moment that lead to your shields dropping.
  - The expectations of the company and the job were not met.
  - And when faced with opportunity elsewhere, you engaged.

### It's Not Just Boredom
- Bored often is a major contributor to resignations, but it is only one of the major factors in decision making.
- The departure cost of a wanted human leaving is usually always exponentially higher than the cost with whatever minor situation existed in the past that led to this shields-down situation.
- Every moment as a leader is an opportunity to either strengthen or weaken shields.
  - Every.
  - Single.
  - Moment.