# 52. Chaotic, Beautiful Snowflakes
----
- On the necessity of leadership
- Hypothetical situation:
  - You arrive at work. Check your emails, respond to some. You get breakfast. Sit down and conversate with some fellow engineers. You discover that you're doing duplicate work with another engineer and decide to let the other engineer take point. You're walking back from the kitchen and run into another engineer. You resolve the issue for a meeting later today and consequently, end up cancelling the meeting.
    - All this happens within one hour of your arrival--of which, the only things you planned were your arrival time and your intent for breakfast.
    - Everything else _just happende_ thanks to proximity and serendipity.

### Non-Obvious Work
- You are a software engineer.
  - You worked very hard to learn the science of computers.
  - The hypothetical situation from before was a slew of unplanned work.
    - And that's just you.
  - You're part of a team of some number of other engineers.
- All the random interactions are a sign of a healthy team, but you are underestimating the anount of both obvious and non-obvious work it's creating for unsuspecting others.

### You Squared
- You significantly underestimate the amount of work you generated this hypothetical morning.
- You can document and communicate the obvious work, but you can't document all the unexpected side effects of your actions.
- Humans--engineers especially--focus on the obvious and measurable work that needs to be done.
- We are really shitty at estimating the non-linear chaotic work (and fund) that exists in keeping a group of humans pointed in the right direction.

### On Leadership
- You need a well-defined leadership role to deal with unexpected and non-linear side effects of people working together.
- There are a slew of good reasons to hate crap leadership.
- It is likely that you remember these crap leaders a lot more than you do the good ones who quietly and effortless helped.
- A portion of every leader's day is the detection, triage, and resolution of work we never planned.
- A leader can confidently say that they have a full calendar of meetings, but they don't know what they're going to be doing that day.
  - It's an essential part of the gig.

### Chaotic, Beautiful Snowflakes
- Working as a team is hard work.
- The work isn't hard because of the things you know; it's hard because of the things you don't.
- The hard work of great leadership isn't just managing the expected tasks that we can preditct--it's the art of successfully traversing the unexpected.